SOURCE: Local_798_2022_Majors_MOA.pdf
PAGES: 50
============================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 50 ---

July 6, 2022
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT OF MARCH 1, 2022 WITH MAKE-UP ARTISTS
AND HAIR STYLISTS, LOCAL #798, IATSE AND MPTAAC
FOR MAJOR FILM THEATRICAL AND TELEVISION SERIES AGREEMENT AND
SUPPLEMENTAL DIGITAL PRODUCTION AGREEMENT
WITH MAJOR PRODUCERS
This Memorandum of Agreement is entered into between Make-up Artists and Hair Stylists,
Local #798, IATSE and MPTAAC (hereinafter referred to as “Local #798" or “the Union”), on
the one hand, and the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (hereinafter
"AMPTP") on behalf of those Producers listed on Exhibit “A” attached hereto (each hereinafter
respectively referred to as the "Employer" and collectively referred to as the "Employers"), on the
other hand.
This Memorandum of Agreement modifies the provisions of the 2019 Major Film Theatrical and
Television Series Agreement with Major Producers and the 2019 Supplemental Digital
Production Agreement. All of the provisions of the 2019 Major Film Theatrical and Television
Series Agreement with Major Producers and the 2019 Supplemental Digital Production
Agreement remain the same, except as changed herein.
This Memorandum of Agreement reflects the complete understanding reached between the
parties. As soon as practicable, this Memorandum of Agreement will be reduced to formal
contract language. This Memorandum of Agreement is not contract language, except where the
context clearly indicates otherwise.
This Memorandum shall be subject to ratification by the membership of Local #798 by July 25,
2022. Provided that the AMPTP receives notice of ratification by July 25, 2022 and provided
that no work stoppage by the membership of Local #798 takes place between March 1, 2022 and
the date of ratification of this Memorandum, the provisions of this Memorandum of Agreement
shall be effective as of the dates hereinafter set forth, except that when no date is specified, such
provisions shall be effective as of the first Sunday following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of
ratification.
In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. Term
The term of each of the Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists, Local #798, IATSE and
MPTAAC Major Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement and the Supplemental
Digital Production Agreement shall be for three (3) years, commencing on March 1, 2022
through and including February 28, 2025.
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 2 of 50 ---

2. Wages
a. Minimum wage rates in the 2019 Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement shall be increased by three percent (3%) effective February 27, 2022;
by an additional three percent (3%) effective February 26, 2023; and by an
additional three percent (3%) effective March 3, 2024. These increases shall be
compounded. All retroactive payments shall be made as soon as possible.
b. Minimum wage rates under the 2019 Supplemental Digital Production Agreement
shall be increased by three percent (3%) effective October 2, 2022 and by an
additional three percent (3%) effective October 1, 2023. Minimum wage rates for
the period September 29, 2024 to February 28, 2025 shall be increased by the
same percentage and at the same time as the corresponding wage rates for
“Make-Up Artists” and “Hair Stylists” in the IATSE Videotape Agreement are
increased, and shall remain in effect for the same time period as the
correspondingly increased rates for Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists under the
Videotape Agreement. The foregoing increases shall be compounded.
3. Fringe Benefits
a. Major Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement: Modify Articles 20 and
37 of the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement to increase the
fringe benefit contribution rates by six dollars ($6.00) per day retroactive to
February 27, 2022, by an additional six dollars ($6.00) per day effective February
26, 2023 and by an additional seven dollars ($7.00) per day effective March 3,
2024. The foregoing increases shall not apply to the fringe benefit contributions
made on behalf of employees employed on theatrical motion pictures in New
York, New Jersey and Connecticut under Article 20(c)(1)(i).
b. Supplemental Digital Production Agreement: Modify Articles 30 and 31 of the
Supplemental Digital Production Agreement to increase the fringe benefit
contribution rates by six dollars ($6.00) per day effective October 2, 2022, by an
additional six dollars ($6.00) per day effective October 1, 2023 and by an
additional seven dollars ($7.00) per day effective September 29, 2024.
c. Allocation of the fringe benefit contribution increases which are effective
February 27, 2022 as set forth in Item 3.a. above (or October 2, 2022 as set forth
in Item 3.b. above in the case of the Supplemental Digital Production Agreement)
between the IATSE National Health and Welfare Fund and the IATSE Annuity
Fund shall be made by mutual agreement of the bargaining parties no later than
July 25, 2022. In the event the parties do not mutually agree upon the allocation
before the deadline described in the preceding sentence, one half of each of the
fringe benefit contribution increases over which the parties have not reached
-2-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 3 of 50 ---

agreement shall be allocated to the IATSE National Health and Welfare Fund, and
one half shall be allocated to the IATSE Annuity Fund.
Allocation of the fringe benefit contribution increases which are effective
February 26, 2023 as set forth in Item 3.a. above (or October 1, 2023 as set forth
in Item 3.b. above in the case of the Supplemental Digital Production Agreement)
between the IATSE National Health and Welfare Fund and the IATSE Annuity
Fund shall be made by mutual agreement of the bargaining parties no later than
October 31, 2022. In the event the parties do not mutually agree upon the
allocation before the deadline described in the preceding sentence, one half of
each of the fringe benefit contribution increases over which the parties have not
reached agreement shall be allocated to the IATSE National Health and Welfare
Fund, and one half shall be allocated to the IATSE Annuity Fund.
Allocation of the fringe benefit contribution increases which are effective March
3, 2024 as set forth in Item 3.a. above (or September 29, 2024 as set forth in Item
3.b. above in the case of the Supplemental Digital Production Agreement)
between the IATSE National Health and Welfare Fund and the IATSE Annuity
Fund shall be made by mutual agreement of the bargaining parties no later than
October 31, 2023. In the event the parties do not mutually agree upon the
allocation before the deadline described in the preceding sentence, one half of
each of the fringe benefit contribution increases over which the parties have not
reached agreement shall be allocated to the IATSE National Health and Welfare
Fund, and one half shall be allocated to the IATSE Annuity Fund, unless the Local
#798 Pension Fund is less than eighty percent (80%) funded or is projected to
have a negative credit balance during the seven (7) year projection period, based
on the Pension Protection Act funded status as shown in the Actuarial
Certification of Plan Status as of November 1, 2022 (which is scheduled to be
issued approximately at the end of January 2023), in which case, one half of the
applicable increase shall be allocated to the Local #798 Pension Fund, one quarter
shall be allocated to the IATSE National Health and Welfare Fund, and one
quarter shall be allocated to the IATSE Annuity Fund.
The parties may agree to different allocations for each of the Items 3.c.i. through
vii. below:
i. Article 20(c)(1)(ii) in the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement;
ii. Article 20(c)(2)(i) in the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement and Article 30(c)(1) in the Supplemental Digital Production
Agreement;
-3-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 4 of 50 ---

iii. Article 20(c)(2)(ii) in the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement and Article 30(c)(2) in the Supplemental Digital Production
Agreement;
iv. Article 20(c)(2)(iii) in the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement and Article 30(c)(3) in the Supplemental Digital Production
Agreement;
v. Article 37(a)(1) in the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement;
vi. Article 37(a)(2) in the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement;
vii. Article 37(b) in the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement and Article 31 in the Supplemental Digital Production
Agreement.
(The foregoing allocations in this Item 3.c. shall not be subject to the last sentence
of Article 20(c)(3) of the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement
or Article 30(d) of the Supplemental Digital Production Agreement.)
4. Employee Salary Deferrals to the 401(k) feature of the IATSE Annuity Fund
Add a new Article 20.1 to Part III and a new Article 37.1 to Part IV of the Local #798
Major Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement (and a new Article 31.1 to the
Local #798 Supplemental Digital Production Agreement) as follows:
“ARTICLE ___. 401(k) FEATURE OF IATSE ANNUITY FUND
“The parties recognize that the 401(k) feature of the IATSE Annuity Fund permits
salary deferral by certain employees employed under ‘Majors Features and Television
Agreements’ as defined by the Fund. The parties hereby agree that employees shall be
eligible to defer salary to the 401(k) feature of the IATSE Annuity Fund in accordance
with the rules of that Fund and in accordance with the following:
“(a) There will be no Employer contributions to the 401(k) feature of the
IATSE Annuity Fund.
“(b) Either the Union and/or the participants in the Fund shall pay any
management or administrative costs.
“(c) The Employers and the Union will take such measures, particularly with
respect to design of the Fund, as are required to limit the liability of the Employers.
-4-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 5 of 50 ---

“(d) The Fund shall warrant to the Employers that it will timely discharge its
duties and responsibilities, so as to avoid any liability for the Employers.
“The foregoing shall be effective on [insert date that is the first Sunday after
ninety (90) days following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification].”
5. Box Rental
Add a new Article 50 to Part IV of the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement, as follows:
“ARTICLE 50. BOX RENTAL
“When an employee is required by the Employer to supply materials and/or
equipment, the employee may negotiate directly with the Employer at the time of
employment for an allowance, and their agreement will be included in the employee’s
deal memo. Alternatively, after submitting receipts, the employee shall be reimbursed for
reasonable and necessary business-related expenses approved in advance by the
Employer.”
6. Working Accommodations
The AMPTP shall issue the following bulletin (and provide a copy to Local #798) within
thirty (30) days of receipt of notice of ratification:
“NOTICE TO PRODUCERS REPRESENTED
BY THE AMPTP IN NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE
2022 LOCAL #798 MAJOR FILM THEATRICAL
AND TELEVISION SERIES AGREEMENT
AND THE 2022 LOCAL #798 SUPPLEMENTAL
DIGITAL PRODUCTION AGREEMENT:
“During negotiations for the 2022 Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and
Television Series Agreement and the 2022 Local #798 Supplemental Digital Production
Agreement, the Union raised concerns about the working accommodations of employees
in the Make-Up and Hair Departments. Please remind your companies to communicate
to the production personnel who are responsible for setting up holding areas that they
should provide suitable working accommodations to the extent possible and consistent
with the shooting site.
“When considering whether working accommodations are suitable, companies
should consider factors such as adequate light, protection from the elements, ventilation,
bathroom accessibility and maintenance, and compliance with applicable health and
safety standards, rules and regulations. Participation of the Hair and Make-up
-5-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 6 of 50 ---

Department Heads (or their designees) in production logistics meetings may be helpful to
identify potential issues with the suitability of working accommodations in advance of the
day of shooting. It is understood that the working accommodations will necessarily vary
depending on the circumstances of the shooting site.
“Please ensure that a copy of this bulletin is distributed to the appropriate
personnel in your production offices.”
6. Rest Periods
a. Modify Article 15 in Part III of the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and
Television Series Agreement (and make conforming changes) as follows:
“ARTICLE 15. REST PERIOD
“[Article 15(a)(1) and (b) below apply to employees employed on a motion
picture, program, part of a mini-series or episode of a series which commences
principal photography on or after [insert the date that is the first Sunday after 90
days following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification]. Otherwise, Article
15(a)(1) of the 2019 Agreement shall apply in lieu thereof.]
“(a) Daily Rest Period
(1) For employees working on theatrical motion pictures,
tThere shall be at least a ten (10) hour rest period between the termination of work
on one call and the commencement of the next work call, which shall be
invadable, measured as provided in subparagraph (d) below; except that when an
employee is required by the Employer to remain away from home overnight on
distant location on a television motion picture, the daily rest period shall be nine
(9) hours, measured ‘portal-to-portal.’
(2) The penalty for violation of the daily rest period (i.e., for
allowing less than the ten (10) hour rest period) shall be to pay for the invaded
hours only at an additional straight time, except that:
(i) on theatrical motion pictures, when the employee
works more than fourteen (14) consecutive hours (i.e., fourteen (14) elapsed
hours) from the time of reporting and does not receive a ten (10) hour rest period,
the employee will be paid, when the employee he resumes work, at the rate in
effect at the time dismissed from the first call for all hours worked in excess of
fourteen (14) until the employee receives a ten (10) hour rest period.; and
(b) For employees working on television motion pictures, there shall
be a nine (9) hour rest period between the termination of work on one call and the
commencement of the next work call, which shall be invadable. The penalty for
-6-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 7 of 50 ---

violation of the rest period (i.e., for allowing less than the nine (9) hour rest
period) shall be to pay for the invaded hours only at an additional straight time,
except that
(ii) on television motion pictures, when the employee
works more than fourteen (14) consecutive hours (i.e., fourteen (14) elapsed
hours) from the time of reporting and does not get a nine (9) hour rest period, the
employee will be paid, when the employee he resumes work, at the rate in effect at
the time dismissed from the first call for all hours worked in excess of fourteen
(14) until the employee receives a nine (9) hour rest period.
“(b) Weekend Rest Period1
“(1) Weekend Rest Period for Employees Who Work a Five (5)
Consecutive Day Workweek
“An employee who works five (5) consecutive days in the
workweek shall be entitled to a weekend rest period of fifty-four (54) hours,
inclusive of the daily rest period.
“The weekend rest period may be reduced to fifty (50)
hours, inclusive of the daily rest period, in the following circumstances:
“(i) the fifth day of the workweek is no longer than
twelve (12) hours worked; and either
“(ii) (A) exterior night shooting, as called for in the
script, is scheduled for the fifth day of the workweek;
“(B) work on the fifth day of the workweek takes
place at a shooting location, access to which is limited to certain hours; or
“(C) work on the fifth day of the workweek is
delayed due to a health and safety concern as a result of weather or a natural
hazard that occurs during the course of the employee’s work shift.
“(iii) Employer may utilize the foregoing exceptions:
“(A) once on a one-time motion picture 66
minutes or more but less than 85 minutes in length;
1 “If the production’s first workweek is a partial workweek, the weekend rest period shall
apply as if it were a full workweek.”
-7-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 8 of 50 ---

“(B) no more than once every six (6) weeks on
episodic series and mini-series; or
“(C) twice on a theatrical motion picture or a
one-time motion picture 85 minutes or more in length.
“(2) Weekend Rest Period for Employees Who Work a Six (6)
Consecutive Day Workweek
“An employee who works six (6) consecutive days in the
workweek shall be entitled to a rest period of thirty-two (32) hours, inclusive of
the daily rest period.
“(3) Weekend Rest Period for Employees Whose Sixth Day
Worked Occurs on the Seventh Day of the Workweek
“An employee whose sixth day worked occurs on the
seventh day of the workweek shall be entitled to a rest period of thirty-two (32)
hours, inclusive of the daily rest period. The rest period shall be measured from
dismissal on the employee’s fifth consecutive day of work to the start of the
employee’s work day on the seventh day of the workweek.
“(4) The foregoing rest periods shall not apply to a workweek
shift.
“(5) Measurement of the weekend rest period shall be the same
as applies to the daily rest period in this Article 15, except that the measurement
of the weekend rest period for an employee who is required by the Employer to
remain away from home overnight on distant location shall be ‘set-to-set’ or, if
the employee is not employed on a set, ‘worksite-to-worksite,’ meaning the
measurement for the weekend rest period shall commence upon dismissal at the
set (or at the worksite) and end at call time at the set (or at the worksite).
“(c) The penalty for invasion of the rest period as provided herein shall
be payment for invaded hours only at an additional straight time, except as
otherwise provided in subparagraph (a)(2) above.
“(cd) The daily rest period shall start and end as follows:
“(1) For Employees Reporting to a Location in the Thirty (30)
Mile New York Zone, Within the Area Bounded by 125th Street and the Battery
“In the New York metropolitan area, when an employee is
required to report to a location within the thirty (30) mile zone (as defined in
Article 18(a)(1) of this Agreement), and within the area bounded by 125th Street
-8-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 9 of 50 ---

and the Battery, the daily rest period shall commence at the time of dismissal at
the location and, if called to work by the same Employer at a similar zone location
the following day, end at the call time for the next day.
“(2) For Employees Reporting to a Location Within the Thirty
(30) Mile Zone, But Outside the Area Bounded by 125th Street and the Battery
“In the New York metropolitan area, if an employee is
required to report to a location within the thirty (30) mile zone, but outside the
area between 125th Street and the Battery, the daily rest period shall be deemed to
commence at the time that results when the amount of time required for the
employee to travel from such location back to either a mutually agreed upon point
in the area bounded by 125th Street and the Battery or to the perimeter of the area
bounded by 125th Street and the Battery is added to the employee’s dismissal
time.
“If the employee reports to a location within the thirty (30)
mile zone, but outside the area between 125th Street and the Battery for the same
Employer on the following day, then the daily rest period ends when the amount
of time required for the employee to travel from either a mutually agreed upon
point in the area bounded by 125th Street and the Battery or from the area
bounded by 125th Street and the Battery to the location is subtracted from the
employee’s call time.
“For example, suppose an employee is required to report to
Newark for work on a pilot which commences principal photography on
November 1, 2022. The employee is dismissed from work at 97:00 p.m. Suppose
the agreed-upon travel time from Newark to reach the perimeter of the area
between 125th Street and the Battery is one-half hour. The employee’s daily rest
period begins at 79:30 p.m. When the employee is required to report to Newark to
work for the same Employer the following day, the employee’s call time may not
be earlier than 8:00 a.m. to avoid an invasion of the ten (10) hour daily rest period.
Suppose the employee is required to report to Newark for the same Employer the
following day at 7:00 a.m. The employee’s rest period ends at 6:30 a.m.
“(3) For Employees Reporting to a Studio
“In the New York metropolitan area, when an employee is
required to report to a studio located within the thirty (30) mile zone (as defined in
Article 18(a)(1) of this Agreement), the daily rest period shall commence at the
time of dismissal at the studio and, if called to work at the studio by the same
Employer the following day, end at the call time for the next day.
-9-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 10 of 50 ---

“(4) For Employees Reporting to Work on Nearby Locations in
the New York Metropolitan Area
“In the New York metropolitan area, if an employee is
required to report to a location outside the thirty (30) mile zone, then the daily rest
period shall be deemed to commence at the time that results when the amount of
time required for the employee to travel from the location to either a mutually
agreed-upon point in the area bounded by 125th Street and the Battery or to the
perimeter of the area bounded by 125th Street and the Battery is added to the
employee’s dismissal time and ends when the amount of time required for the
employee to travel from a mutually agreed-upon point in the area bounded by
125th Street and the Battery or from the perimeter of the area bounded by 125th
Street and the Battery to the location is subtracted from the employee’s call time,
if called to work by the same Employer at a nearby location on the following day.
“For example, an employee is required to report for work to
Princeton, N.J. for work on a pilot that commences principal photography on
November 1, 2022. The employee is dismissed from work at 78:00 p.m. Suppose
the agreed-upon travel time from Princeton to the perimeter of the area bounded
by 125th Street and the Battery is one and one-half (1½) hours. The employee’s
daily rest period begins at 89:30 p.m. When the employee is required to report to
Princeton to work for the same Employer the following day, the employee’s call
time may not be earlier than 9:00 a.m. to avoid an invasion of the ten (10) hour
daily rest period. Suppose the employee is required to report to Princeton the
following day at 8:00 a.m. The employee’s rest period ends at 6:30 a.m.
“(5) A designated representative of the Employer and a
designated representative of the Union shall determine the amount of time needed
to travel between the location and either the mutually agreed-upon point within
the area bounded by 125th Street and the Battery or the perimeter of the area
bounded by 125th Street and the Battery. In the event of a dispute, the matter
shall be referred to the employees’ bargaining representative and to the Labor
Relations representative of the Employer for resolution.
“(6) For Employees Reporting to Work in All Other Areas
Covered by Part III of this Agreement
“For employees reporting to work in all other areas of
Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New
Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont and/or the District of
Columbia, the rest period shall be ‘set-to-set’ (i.e., begins at the employee’s
dismissal time at the set and ends at the employee’s call time at the set the next
day), unless the employee is on distant location in which case the rest period is
‘portal-to-portal’ (i.e.,begins at the time the employee returns to the housing base
-10-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 11 of 50 ---

provided by the Employer from the set and ends at the time the employee leaves
the housing base to return to the set the next day).”
b. Modify Article 38 in Part IV of the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and
Television Series Agreement (and make conforming changes) as follows:
“ARTICLE 38. REST PERIODS
“[Article 38(a)(1) and (b) below apply to employees employed on a motion
picture, program, part of a mini-series or episode of a series which commences
principal photography on or after [insert the date that is the first Sunday after 90
days following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification]. Otherwise, Article
38 of the 2019 Agreement shall apply in lieu thereof.]
“(a) Daily Rest Period
“(1) For employees working on theatrical motion pictures,
tThere shall be at least a ten (10) hour rest period between the termination of work
on one call and the commencement of the next work call, which shall be
invadable, except that when an employee is required by the Employer to remain
away from home overnight on distant location on a television motion picture, the
daily rest period shall be nine (9) hours, measured ‘portal-to-portal.’
“(2) The penalty for violation of the rest period (i.e., for
allowing less than the ten (10) hour rest period) shall be to pay for the invaded
hours only at an additional straight time, except that:
“(i) on theatrical motion pictures, when the employee
works more than fourteen (14) consecutive hours (i.e., fourteen (14) elapsed
hours) from the time of reporting and does not receive a ten (10) hour rest period,
the employee will be paid, when he resumes work, at the rate in effect at the time
dismissed from the first call for all hours worked in excess of fourteen (14) until
the employee receives a ten (10) hour rest period.; and
(b) For employees working on television motion pictures, there shall
be a nine (9) hour rest period between the termination of work on one call and the
commencement of the next work call, which shall be invadable. The penalty for
violation of the rest period (i.e., for allowing less than the nine (9) hour rest
period) shall be to pay for the invaded hours only at an additional straight time,
except that
“(ii) on television motion pictures, when the employee
works more than fourteen (14) consecutive hours (i.e., fourteen (14) elapsed
hours) from the time of reporting and does not get a nine (9) hour rest period, the
employee will be paid, when he resumes work, at the rate in effect at the time
-11-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 12 of 50 ---

dismissed from the first call for all hours worked in excess of fourteen (14) until
the employee receives a nine (9) hour rest period.
“(b) Weekend Rest Period2
“(1) Weekend Rest Period for Employees Who Work a Five (5)
Consecutive Day Workweek
“An employee who works five (5) consecutive days in the
workweek shall be entitled to a weekend rest period of fifty-four (54) hours,
inclusive of the daily rest period.
“The weekend rest period may be reduced to fifty (50)
hours, inclusive of the daily rest period, in the following circumstances:
“(i) the fifth day of the workweek is no longer than
twelve (12) hours worked; and either
“(ii) (A) exterior night shooting, as called for in the
script, is scheduled for the fifth day of the workweek;
“(B) work on the fifth day of the workweek takes
place at a shooting location, access to which is limited to certain hours; or
“(C) work on the fifth day of the workweek is
delayed due to a health and safety concern as a result of weather or a natural
hazard that occurs during the course of the employee’s work shift.
“(iii) Employer may utilize the foregoing exceptions:
“(A) once on a one-time motion picture 66
minutes or more but less than 85 minutes in length;
“(B) no more than once every six (6) weeks on
episodic series and mini-series; or
“(C) twice on a theatrical motion picture or a
one-time motion picture 85 minutes or more in length.
2 “If the production’s first workweek is a partial workweek, the weekend rest period shall
apply as if it were a full workweek.”
-12-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 13 of 50 ---

“(2) Weekend Rest Period for Employees Who Work a Six (6)
Consecutive Day Workweek
“An employee who works six (6) consecutive days in the
workweek shall be entitled to a rest period of thirty-two (32) hours, inclusive of
the daily rest period.
“(3) Weekend Rest Period for Employees Whose Sixth Day
Worked Occurs on the Seventh Day of the Workweek
“An employee whose sixth day worked occurs on the
seventh day of the workweek shall be entitled to a rest period of thirty-two (32)
hours, inclusive of the daily rest period. The rest period shall be measured from
dismissal on the employee’s fifth consecutive day of work to the start of the
employee’s work day on the seventh day of the workweek.
“(4) The foregoing rest periods shall not apply to a workweek
shift.
“(5) Measurement of the weekend rest period shall be the same
as applies to the daily rest period in this Article 38, except that the measurement
of the weekend rest period for an employee who is required by the Employer to
remain away from home overnight on distant location shall be ‘set-to-set’ or, if
the employee is not employed on a set, ‘worksite-to-worksite,’ meaning the
measurement for the weekend rest period shall commence upon dismissal at the
set (or at the worksite) and end at call time at the set (or at the worksite).
“(c) The penalty for invasion of the rest period as provided herein shall
be payment for invaded hours only at an additional straight time, except as
otherwise provided in subparagraph (a)(2) above.
c. Modify Article 24 of the Local #798 Supplemental Digital Production Agreement
(and make conforming changes) as follows:
“24. CALL-BACKS
“The following provisions apply to employees employed on a motion
picture, program, part of a mini-series or episode of a series which commences
principal photography on or after [insert the date that is the first Sunday after 90
days following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification]. Otherwise, Article
24 of the 2019 Agreement shall apply.
“(a) Daily Rest Period
(1) Rest periods following dismissal shall be eight (8) hours
-13-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 14 of 50 ---

for work within the studio; ten (10) hours for report-to assignments outside a
studio, but within the thirty (30) mile zone or within the thirty (30) mile
production zone; and nine (9) hours for work on a nearby location or when
transported from a studio to a location within the thirty (30) mile zone or within
the thirty (30) mile production zone. The daily rest period shall be ten (10) hours.
If the daily rest period is invaded by no more than two (2) hours when employed
at a studio or by no more than one (1) hour when working on a nearby location or
when transported from a studio to a location within the thirty (30) mile zone or
within a thirty (30) mile production zone, the employee shall be paid additional
straight time for all such invaded time. Otherwise, the penalty for an invasion of
the daily rest period shall be as provided in Article 22(b) above.
“(2) Intervening time of less than four (4) hours between
dismissal and call-back to work shall be work time; intervening time of four (4) or
more hours shall not be work time. When intervening time is less than four (4)
hours, such time may be applied as part of the ‘call-back’ guarantees below. All
employees are paid at their scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rates as provided in
Article 13.
Minimum Guarantees for ‘Call-backs’
Within Eight (8) Hours of Dismissal
Classification Weekdays Sixth or Seventh Day
Worked in an
Employee’s Workweek
and Holidays*
Daily Employees 4 hours at time and 3 hours at double time;
one-half; time and double time thereafter
one-half thereafter
Weekly Employees ½ minimum call ½ minimum call
“* The above ‘call-back’ guarantees do not apply when employee reports to work
on such days within eight (8) hours of time of dismissal from work starting on the
previous day. In such event, the ‘call-back’ guarantee is the minimum call in
hours as scheduled in Article 19.
“By way of clarification, the parties agree that forced calls are triggered by
time worked, rather than by time paid.
-14-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 15 of 50 ---

“(b) Weekend Rest Period1
“(1) Weekend Rest Period for Employees Who Work a Five (5)
Consecutive Day Workweek
“An employee who works five (5) consecutive days in the
workweek shall be entitled to a weekend rest period of fifty-four (54) hours,
inclusive of the daily rest period.
“The weekend rest period may be reduced to fifty (50)
hours, inclusive of the daily rest period, in the following circumstances:
“(i) the fifth day of the workweek is no longer than
twelve (12) hours worked; and either
“(ii) (A) exterior night shooting, as called for in the
script, is scheduled for the fifth day of the workweek;
“(B) work on the fifth day of the workweek takes
place at a shooting location, access to which is limited to certain hours; or
“(C) work on the fifth day of the workweek is
delayed due to health and safety concerns as a result of weather or a natural hazard
that occurs during the course of the employee’s work shift.
“(iii) Producer may utilize the foregoing exceptions:
“(A) once on a one-time motion picture 66
minutes or more but less than 85 minutes in length;
“(B) no more than once every six (6) weeks on
episodic series and mini-series; or
“(C) twice on a one-time motion picture 85
minutes or more in length.
“(2) Weekend Rest Period for Employees Who Work a Six (6)
Consecutive Day Workweek
“An employee who works six (6) consecutive days in the
workweek shall be entitled to a rest period of thirty-two (32) hours, inclusive of
the daily rest period.
1“If the production’s first workweek is a partial workweek, the weekend rest period shall
apply as if it were a full workweek.”
-15-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 16 of 50 ---

“(3) Weekend Rest Period for Employees Whose Sixth Day
Worked Occurs on the Seventh Day of the Workweek
“An employee whose sixth day worked occurs on the
seventh day of the workweek shall be entitled to a rest period of thirty-two (32)
hours between the fifth day worked and the seventh day of the workweek,
inclusive of the daily rest period.
“(4) The penalty for invasion of the weekend rest periods set
forth in subparagraph (b)(1)-(3) above shall be payment of additional straight time
for the invaded hours only.
“(5) The rest periods set forth in subparagraph (b)(1)-(3) above
do not apply to a workweek shift.
“(6) Measurement of the weekend rest period shall be the same
as applies to the daily rest period under Article 24(a)(1) above, except that the
measurement of the weekend rest period for an employee who is required by the
Employer to remain away from home overnight on distant location shall be ‘set-
to-set’ or, if the employee is not employed on a set, ‘worksite-to-worksite,’
meaning the measurement for the weekend rest period shall commence upon
dismissal at the set (or at the worksite) and end at call time at the set (or at the
worksite).”
Make conforming changes, including the following:
Modify subparagraph (b) of Article 22 (“Golden Hour Provisions”) of the
Supplemental Digital Production Agreement to provide: “(b) Except with
respect to the daily rest period as provided in Article 24(a), once Once an
employee is on Golden Hours, all work time thereafter (including meal
periods but excluding interruptions as defined below) shall be paid for at
the applicable Golden Hour rate until he shall have received a rest period
of not less than eight (8) consecutive hours.”
In addition, modify subparagraph (b) of Article 22 (“Golden Hour
Provisions”) of the Supplemental Digital Production Agreement to
provide: “This subparagraph (b) does not apply to the weekend rest
period provisions in Article 24(b).”
-16-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 17 of 50 ---

d. Modify Article 26 of the Local #798 Supplemental Digital Production Agreement
(and make conforming changes) as follows:
“26. CALL-BACKS (Distant Location)
“The following provision applies to employees employed on a program,
part of a mini-series or episode of a series which commences principal
photography on or after [insert date that is the first Sunday that falls 90 days after
the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification]. Otherwise, Article 26 of the 2019
Agreement shall apply.
“(a) Daily Rest Period on Distant Location
“(1) Rest periods following dismissal shall be eight (8) hours on
distant location. The daily rest period shall be nine (9) hours on distant location.
If the daily rest period is invaded by no more than one (1) hour, the employee
shall be paid additional straight time for all such invaded time. If the daily rest
period is invaded by more than one (1) hour, then the penalty shall be as provided
in Article 22(b) above.
“(2) Intervening time of less than four (4) hours between
dismissal and call-back for work shall be work time; intervening time of four (4)
or more hours shall not be work time. When intervening time is less than four (4)
hours, such time may be applied as part of the ‘call-back’ guarantee. All
employees are paid at their scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rates.
Minimum Guarantees For ‘Call-backs’
During Rest Periods Following Dismissal
Classification Weekdays Sixth or Seventh Day
Worked in an
Employee’s Workweek
and Holidays*
Daily Employees 4 hours at time and 3 hours at double time;
one-half; time and double time thereafter
one-half thereafter
Weekly Employees ½ minimum call ½ minimum call
“* The above ‘call-back’ guarantees for the sixth or seventh day worked in an
employee’s workweek or holiday do not apply when employee reports to work on
such days within the appropriate rest period following dismissal from work
starting on the previous day. In such event, the ‘call-back’ guarantee is the
minimum call in hours as specified in Article 13.
“By way of clarification, the parties agree that forced calls are triggered by
time worked, rather than by time paid.
-17-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 18 of 50 ---

“(b) Weekend Rest Period on Distant Location1
“Article 24(b) shall apply on distant location, except that weekend
rest periods on distant location shall be measured ‘set-to-set’ or, if the employee is
not employed on a set, ‘worksite-to-worksite,’ meaning the measurement for the
weekend rest period shall commence upon dismissal at the set (or at the worksite)
and end at call time at the set (or at the worksite).”
Make conforming changes.
7. Overtime
Modify Article 36 in Part IV of the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and Television
Series Agreement to provide that an employee will be paid two (2) times the employee’s
regular hourly rate for all hours worked after twelve (12) hours worked on any work day
(other than for Distant Hires) on:
(1) a pilot, other than a pilot made for basic cable or The CW and other than a two
(2) hour pilot for which there is no series commitment at the time of the pilot
order;
(2) an episode of a series, other than the first season of a series made for basic cable
or The CW; or
(3) a one-time television motion picture, other than a long-form television motion
picture
which commences principal photography on or after the first Sunday that falls 90 days
after the AMPTP receives notice of ratification. The foregoing shall not apply to a mini-
series.
Contract language changes are as follows:
“ARTICLE 36. OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAY
“(a) For all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours of work on the first
through the fifth work days in a workweek or after forty (40) straight time hours of work
in a workweek, and for the first twelve (12) hours worked (or for the first fourteen (14)
elapsed hours if applicable under subparagraph (b) below) on a sixth work day in a
workweek, an employee shall be paid one and one-half (1½) times the employee's regular
basic hourly rate.
1 “If the production’s first workweek is a partial workweek, the weekend rest period shall
apply as if it were a full workweek.”
-18-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 19 of 50 ---

“(b) (1) For all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours of work on any
work day when an employee is employed on a theatrical motion picture, an employee
shall be paid two (2) times the employee's regular basic hourly rate; however, on
television productions, the employee shall be paid two (2) times the employee’s regular
basic hourly rate for all hours worked after fourteen (14) elapsed hours.
“(2) Two (2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate will be paid for
all hours worked after fourteen (14) elapsed hours when the employee is employed on a
television production, except:
“Two (2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate will be paid for
all hours worked after twelve (12) hours of work on any work day (other than for Distant
Hires) when the employee is employed on any of the following productions which
commence principal photography on or after [insert the date that is the first Sunday after
90 days following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification]:
“(A) a pilot, other than a pilot made for basic cable or
The CW and other than a two (2) hour pilot for which there is no series commitment at
the time of the pilot order;
“(B) an episode of a series, other than the first season of
a series made for basic cable or The CW; or
“(C) a one-time television motion picture, other than a
long-form television motion picture.
“(For clarity, employees employed on a mini-series shall be paid double time after
fourteen (14) elapsed hours.)
“(c) For all hours worked on a seventh workday in the employee’s workweek
or on a holiday, an employee shall be paid two (2) times the employee’s regular hourly
rate.
“(d) Overtime and premium rates will be paid in one-tenth (1/10) hour
increments. Overtime and premium rates may not be compounded.”
8. Meal Periods
a. Modify Article 42 of Part IV of the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and
Television Series Agreement as follows:
“ARTICLE 42. MEALS
“The meal period provisions set forth in Article 16 above shall apply to
employees working on productions in Georgia, Louisiana, Maryland, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia, except as follows:
-19-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 20 of 50 ---

“(a) (1) Except as provided in subparagraph (2) below, the
meal penalties for delayed meals shall be computed as follows:
“First one-half (½) hour meal delay or fraction
thereof............................... $7.50
“Second one-half (½) hour meal delay or fraction
thereof.............................. $10.00
“Third and each succeeding fourth one-half (½) hour meal
delay or fraction thereof ................ $12.50
“Fifth and each succeeding half-hour meal delay or
fraction thereof ....................... $25.00
“For any workweek in which an employee is entitled to
more than twenty (20) meal period penalties, all subsequent meal period penalties
for that employee in that workweek shall be compensated at one (1) hour of pay at
the prevailing rate for each one-half (½) hour of meal delay or fraction thereof.
“(2) Meal penalties for delayed meals for employees employed
on television motion pictures shooting in a studio shall be computed as follows:
“First one-half (½) hour meal delay or fraction
thereof..................................... $8.50
“Second one-half (½) hour meal delay or fraction
thereof.................................... $11.00
“Third and each succeeding fourth one-half (½) hour meal
delay or fraction thereof ...................... $13.50
“Fifth and each succeeding half-hour meal delay or
fraction thereof ............................. $25.00
“For any workweek in which an employee is entitled to more than
twenty (20) meal period penalties, all subsequent meal period penalties for that
employee in that workweek shall be compensated at one (1) hour of pay at the
prevailing rate for each one-half (½) hour of meal delay or fraction thereof.
“The meal penalty shall be in addition to the compensation for work time
during the delay and shall not be applied as part of any guarantee.
“(b) The parenthetical in the second meal period clarification shall read,
‘(i.e.,on distant location).’”
-20-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 21 of 50 ---

b. Modify Article 21(h) of the Local #798 Supplemental Digital Production
Agreement to provide:
“21. MEAL PERIODS AND MEALS
* * * *
“(h) Effective [insert date that is the first Sunday following the
AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification]:
“(1) Except as provided in subparagraph (2) below, the meal
penalty for delayed meals shall be computed as follows:
“First one-half (½) hour meal delay or fraction
thereof.................................... $ 7.50
“Second one-half (½) hour meal delay or fraction
thereof.................................... $10.00
“Third and each succeeding fourth half-hour
meal delay or fraction thereof........................ $12.50
“Fifth and each succeeding half-hour meal delay or
fraction thereof ............................. $25.00
"For any workweek in which an employee is entitled to more than
twenty (20) meal period penalties, all subsequent meal period penalties for that
employee in that workweek shall be compensated at one (1) hour of pay at the
prevailing rate for each one-half (½) hour of meal delay or fraction thereof.
“(2) The meal penalty for delayed meals for employees
employed on television motion pictures shooting in a studio shall be computed as
follows:
“First one-half (½) hour meal delay or fraction
thereof.................................... $ 8.50
“Second one-half (½) hour meal delay or fraction
thereof.................................... $11.00
“Third and each succeeding fourth half-hour meal
delay or fraction thereof ...................... $13.50
“Fifth and each succeeding half-hour meal delay or
fraction thereof ............................. $25.00
-21-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 22 of 50 ---

"For any workweek in which an employee is entitled to more than
twenty (20) meal period penalties, all subsequent meal period penalties for that
employee in that workweek shall be compensated at one (1) hour of pay at the
prevailing rate for each one-half (½) hour of meal delay or fraction thereof.”
“Such allowances shall be in addition to the compensation for
work time during the delay and shall not be applied as part of any guarantee.”
9. Use of Personal Vehicles/Mileage
a. Add a new Article 18.2 to Part III of the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and
Television Series Agreement as follows:
“ARTICLE 18.2 USE OF PERSONAL VEHICLE
“Effective [insert date that is the first Sunday after 30 days following
AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification], when an employee uses the
employee’s personal vehicle at the Employer’s request to conduct business for the
Employer during the workday within a radius of thirty (30) miles of Columbus
Circle (and not for commuting purposes), the Employer shall reimburse the
employee for parking and toll road fees that are necessarily incurred and
pre-approved by the Employer and for mileage at the then-current IRS rate or shall
make other arrangements with the employee for payment as allowed under
applicable law (e.g., car allowance). It is understood that if transportation is
offered by the Employer, no reimbursement of any kind is required for the
employee’s use of the employee’s personal vehicle.”
b. Modify Article 44(c) to Part IV of the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and
Television Series Agreement as follows:
“(c) Mileage Allowance: Unless transported offered transportation by
the Employer, employees traveling to any production location outside the
"production zone" shall be paid a mileage allowance calculated at thirty cents
($0.30) per mile from the edge of the zone to the production location for all such
authorized use of the employee’s vehicle. However, effective [insert date that is
the first Sunday after 30 days following AMPTP’s receipt of notice of
ratification], an employee shall be paid a mileage allowance calculated at the
then-current IRS rate. As an alternative to the foregoing provisions of this
subparagraph (c), the Employer may make other arrangements with the employee
for payment as allowed under applicable law (e.g., car allowance).”
c. Modify Article 44(e) of Part IV of the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and
Television Series Agreement as follows:
“(e) Local and Nearby Hires: Local and Nearby Hires shall be paid ‘set
to set.’ Effective [insert date that is the first Sunday after 30 days following
-22-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 23 of 50 ---

AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification], if the employee is required to use the
employee’s personal vehicle during the work day to travel between multiple
locations, whether inside or outside the ‘production zone,’ an employee shall be
paid a mileage allowance calculated at the then-current IRS rate. Alternatively, the
Employer may make other arrangements with the employee for payment as
allowed under applicable law (e.g., car allowance). It is understood that if
transportation is offered by the Employer, no mileage reimbursement of any kind
is required. Local Hires shall not be compensated for mileage unless requested to
use their vehicle outside of the thirty (30) mile production zone as stated in (b)
above.”
10. Local, Nearby and Distant Hires
a. Modify Article 39 of Part IV of the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and
Television Series Agreement as follows:
“ARTICLE 39. LOCAL, NEARBY AND DISTANT HIRES
“(a) A Local Hire is defined as any employee whose principal residence
is within seventy-five (75) miles of the respective production location.
“(b) A Nearby Hire is defined as any employee whose principal
residence lies outside seventy-five (75) miles of the production location, but
inside the states of Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maryland, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Virginia or West Virginia. Such employee shall be paid a weekly living
allowance of no less than $315 per week, or $45 per day prorated (no less than
$350 per week, or $50 per day prorated, effective [insert date that is the first
Sunday following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification]; $385 per week,
or $55 per day prorated, effective February 26, 2023; and $420 per week, or $60
per day prorated, effective March 3, 2024).
“(c) A Distant Hire is defined as any employee whose principal
residence is outside the geographical definition of a Nearby Hire in a given
production area, as defined in Article 39(b) above. Such employee shall be
provided with reasonable single occupancy hotel accommodations.
“(d) The Employer may request employees to sign a written statement
attesting to their principal residency. A false statement of residency will result in
immediate discharge.
“(e) The Employer shall pay per diem to Distant Hires, as defined in
Article 39(c) above, at the following rates per day:
-23-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 24 of 50 ---

Effective on Effective on [insert date that
March 1, 2022: is the first Sunday following
the AMPTP’s receipt of
notice of ratification]:
Breakfast $10.00 $12.00
Lunch $14.00 $16.00
Dinner $27.00 $29.00
Total Per Diem $51.00 $57.00
“(f) Any meals provided by the Employer may be deducted from per
diem at the above-stated rates.”
11. Sick Leave
a. Modify Article 10 of the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement (and make conforming changes to Article 40 of the Local #798
Supplemental Digital Production Agreement, including by accounting for the
presence of weekly employees) as follows:
“ARTICLE 10. WAIVER OF NEW YORK CITY EARNED SICK
TIME ACT AND SIMILAR LAWS SICK LEAVE
“(a) Paid Sick Leave in the State of New York: The following is
applicable only to employees working under this Agreement in the State of New
York:
“(1) Commencing [insert the date that is the first Sunday after
30 days following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification], employees shall
accrue one (1) hour of paid sick leave for every thirty (30) hours worked for the
Employer, up to a maximum of fifty-six (56) hours per calendar year. In lieu of
the foregoing hourly accrual of paid sick leave, an Employer may elect to provide
its employees with a bank of fifty-six (56) hours of sick leave at the beginning of
each calendar year (or upon the employee’s commencement of employment with
the Employer, in the middle of the calendar year). The Employer may not reduce
or revoke the employee’s sick leave based on the number of hours actually worked
by an employee during the calendar year if it elects to provide a bank of sick
leave. For purposes of this Article 10(a), a calendar year shall be measured, as
designated by the Employer, as either a calendar year running from January 1st to
December 31st or as a regular and consecutive twelve-month period.
“(2) Sick leave may be used in minimum increments of four (4)
hours upon the oral or written request of an employee, for the following purposes:
-24-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 25 of 50 ---

“(i) For a mental or physical illness, injury, or health
condition of the employee or the employee's family member,* regardless of
whether the illness, injury, or health condition has been diagnosed or requires
medical care at the time that the employee requests leave;
“(ii) For the diagnosis, care, or treatment of a mental or
physical illness, injury or health condition of, or need for medical diagnosis of, or
preventive care for, the employee or the employee's family member;* or
“(iii) For an absence from work due to any of the
following reasons when the employee or employee's family member* has been the
victim of domestic violence, a family offense, sexual offense, stalking, or human
trafficking:
“(A) to obtain services from a domestic violence
shelter, rape crisis center, or other services program;
“(B) to participate in safety planning, temporarily
or permanently relocate, or take other actions to increase the safety of the
employee or employee's family members;*
“(C) to meet with an attorney or other social
services provider to obtain information and advice on, and prepare for or
participate in any criminal or civil proceeding;
“(D) to file a complaint or domestic incident
report with law enforcement;
“(E) to meet with a district attorney's office;
“(F) to enroll children in a new school; or
“(G) to take any other actions necessary to ensure
the health or safety of the employee or the employee's family member* or to
protect those who associate or work with the employee.
“The reasons outlined above in subparagraphs (A)
through (G) must be related to the domestic violence, family offense, sexual
offense, stalking, or human trafficking. Provided further, that a person who has
committed the domestic violence, family offense, sexual offense, stalking, or
human trafficking shall not be eligible for leave under this Article for situations in
which the person committed the offense and was not a victim, notwithstanding
any family relationship.
“* ‘Family member’ shall mean an employee's
child, spouse, domestic partner, parent, sibling, grandchild or grandparent; and the
child or parent of an employee's spouse or domestic partner. ‘Parent’ shall mean a
-25-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 26 of 50 ---

biological, foster, step- or adoptive parent, or a legal guardian of an employee, or
a person who stood in loco parentis when the employee was a minor child. ‘Child’
shall mean a biological, adopted or foster child, a legal ward, or a child of an
employee standing in loco parentis.
“(3) Reasonable advance notification of the need for sick leave
is required if the use is foreseeable; otherwise, notice is required as soon as
practicable. An Employer may request documentation from an employee
confirming their eligibility to take sick leave where the employee uses leave for
three or more consecutive and previously scheduled workdays. An Employer
cannot require an employee or the person providing documentation, including
medical professionals, to disclose the reason for leave, except as required by law.
Requests for documentation shall be limited to the following:
“(i) An attestation from a licensed medical provider
supporting the existence of a need for sick leave, the amount of leave needed, and
a date that the employee may return to work, or
“(ii) An attestation from an employee of their eligibility
to leave.
“An Employer may not require the disclosure of
confidential information relating to a mental or physical illness, injury, or health
condition of the employee or the employee’s family member, or information
relating to absence from work due to domestic violence, a sexual offense,
stalking, or human trafficking, as a condition of providing sick leave.
“(4) A day of sick leave pay shall be equal to eight (8) hours'
pay at the employee's straight time hourly rate. If a four (4) hour increment of
sick leave is taken, the employee shall be paid four (4) hours of pay at the
employee’s straight time hourly rate. [Conforming change for the SDPA: For
weekly employees, a day of sick leave pay shall be equal to one-fifth (1/5th) of the
employee's weekly rate (or fifty percent (50%) thereof for a four (4) hour
increment of sick leave taken). Replacements for weekly employees may be hired
on a pro rata basis of the weekly rate regardless of any contrary provision in this
Agreement.] The employee shall not be required to find a replacement as a
condition of exercising the employee’s right to paid sick leave.
“(5) An employee’s unused sick leave shall be carried over to
the following calendar year; provided, however, that an Employer may limit the
use of sick leave to fifty-six (56) hours per calendar year. Nothing in this Article
10(a) shall be construed to require an Employer to pay an employee for unused
sick leave upon the employee's termination, resignation, retirement, or other
separation from employment. To the extent the employee is eligible for paid sick
-26-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 27 of 50 ---

leave in a jurisdiction with a law that has not been waived in this Agreement, any
sick leave paid pursuant to the law shall count towards satisfying the Employer’s
obligations to provide paid sick leave under this Article 10(a).
“(6) No Employer shall discharge, threaten, penalize, or in any
other manner discriminate or retaliate against any employee because the employee
has exercised his or her rights under this Article, including, but not limited to,
requesting sick leave and using sick leave.
“(7) Upon return to work following any sick leave taken
pursuant to this Article, an employee shall be restored by the Employer to the
position of employment held by the employee prior to any sick leave taken
pursuant to this Article with the same pay and other terms and conditions of
employment, provided that the position continues to exist.
“(8) Employer shall advise the employee of the designated
Employer representative or department whom the employee may contact to
confirm eligibility and the amount of accrued sick leave available under this
Article 10(a). Upon the oral or written request of an employee to the designated
Employer representative or department, the Employer shall provide a summary of
the amounts of sick leave accrued and used by the employee in the current
calendar year and/or any previous calendar year. The Employer shall provide the
information to the employee within three (3) business days of the request.
“(9) Any dispute with respect to sick leave for employees
covered under this Agreement shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration
procedures provided therein.
“(b) Paid Sick Leave Outside of the State of New York: The following
is applicable to employees working under this Agreement outside the State of
New York:
“(1) Accrual. Commencing [insert the date that is the first
Sunday after 30 days following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification],
eligible employees covered by this Agreement shall accrue one (1) hour of paid
sick leave for every thirty (30) hours worked for the Employer, up to a maximum
of forty-eight (48) hours or six (6) days. (In lieu of the foregoing hourly accrual of
paid sick leave, and provided that advance notice is given to the employee, an
Employer may elect to provide employees, upon their eligibility to use sick leave
as provided below (i.e., upon working thirty (30) days for the Employer and after
their ninetieth (90th) day of employment with the Employer (based on days worked
or guaranteed), with a bank of twenty-four (24) hours or three (3) days of sick
leave per year, such year to be measured, as designated by the Employer, as either
a calendar year or starting from the employee’s anniversary date. Under this
-27-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 28 of 50 ---

elected option, such banked sick leave days may not be carried over to the
following year.)
“(2) To be eligible to accrue paid sick leave, the employee must
have worked for the Employer for at least thirty (30) days within a one (1) year
period, such year to be measured, as designated by the Employer, as either a
calendar year or starting from the employee’s anniversary date. Sick leave may be
used in minimum increments of four (4) hours upon oral or written request after
the eligible employee has been employed by the Employer for ninety (90) days
(based on days worked or guaranteed), such period to be measured, as designated
by the Employer, as either a calendar year or starting from the employee’s
anniversary date. Reasonable advance notification of the need for sick leave is
required if the use is foreseeable; otherwise, notice is required as soon as
practicable. Sick days accrued on an hourly basis shall carry over to the following
year of employment; however, the Employer may limit the use of such accrued
time to no more than twenty-four (24) hours or three (3) days during each year of
employment as defined by the Employer in advance. To the extent the employee
is eligible for paid sick leave in a jurisdiction with a law that has not been waived
in this Agreement, any sick leave paid pursuant to the law shall count towards
satisfying the Employer’s obligations to provide paid sick leave under this Article
10(b).
“(3) A day of sick leave pay shall be equal to eight (8) hours'
pay at the employee's straight time hourly rate. If a four (4) hour increment of
sick leave is taken, the employee shall be paid four (4) hours of pay at the
employee’s straight time hourly rate. [Conforming change for the SDPA: For
weekly employees, a day of sick leave pay shall be equal to one-fifth (1/5th) of the
employee's weekly rate (or fifty percent (50%) thereof for a four (4) hour
increment of sick leave taken). Replacements for weekly employees may be hired
on a pro rata basis of the weekly rate regardless of any contrary provision in this
Agreement.] The employee shall not be required to find a replacement as a
condition of exercising the employee’s right to paid sick leave.
“(4) Sick leave may be taken for the diagnosis, care or treatment
of an existing health condition of, or preventive care for, the employee or the
employee’s ‘family member.’** Sick leave also may be taken by an employee
who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking.
“** ‘Family member’ means any of the following:
(1) a biological, adopted or foster child, stepchild, legal ward or a child to whom
the employee stands in loco parentis; (2) a biological, adoptive or foster parent,
stepparent or legal guardian of the employee or the employee’s spouse or
registered domestic partner or a person who stood in loco parentis when the
-28-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 29 of 50 ---

employee was a minor child; (3) a spouse; (4) a registered domestic partner; (5) a
grandparent; (6) a grandchild; or (7) a sibling.
“(5) Accrued, unused sick leave is not paid out on termination,
resignation or other separation of employment. If the employee is rehired by the
Employer within one (1) year of the employee’s separation from employment, the
employee’s accrued and unused sick leave is reinstated, and the employee may
begin using the accrued sick leave upon rehire if the employee was previously
eligible to use the sick leave or once the employee becomes eligible as provided
above.
“(6) Employer shall advise the employee of the designated
Employer representative or department whom the employee may contact to
confirm eligibility and the amount of accrued sick leave available under this
Article 10(b). The Employer will also indicate which period (i.e., calendar year or
the employee’s anniversary date) the Employer selected to measure the thirty (30)
day and ninety (90) day eligibility periods and the cap on accrual set forth in
subparagraph (2) above or which period (i.e., calendar year or the employee’s
anniversary date) the Employer selected to apply the bank of three (3) sick days as
provided in subparagraph (1) above. Employer also shall notify Local #798 of the
name and contact information of the designated Employer representative or
department.
“(7) Any Employer that, as of [insert the date that is the first
Sunday after 30 days following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification], had
a sick leave policy, or paid leave or paid time off policy that permits the use of
paid sick time, may continue such policy in lieu of the foregoing. Nothing shall
prevent an Employer from negotiating a sick leave policy with better terms and
conditions. There shall be no discrimination or retaliation against any employee
for exercising his or her right to use paid sick leave.
“(8) Any dispute with respect to sick leave for employees
covered under this Agreement shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration
procedures provided therein.
“(c) Waiver of New York City Earned Safe and Sick Time Act and
Similar Laws
“The Union expressly waives, to the full extent permitted by law,
application of the following to all employees employed under this Agreement: the
New York State Paid Sick Leave Law of 2020 (New York Labor Law Section
196-b); the New York City Earned Safe and Sick Time Act (N.Y.C. Admin. Code,
Section 20-911 et seq.); the Westchester County Earned Sick Leave Law (Section
700.36 586.01 et seq. of the Laws of Westchester County); the New Jersey Paid
-29-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 30 of 50 ---

Sick Leave Act (C.34:11-56a et seq.); Chapter 160 of the Ordinances of the
Township of Bloomfield, New Jersey (enacted by Ordinance No. 15-10); the Paid
Sick Time for Private Employees Ordinance of East Orange, New Jersey
(Ordinance No. 21-2014; East Orange Code Chapter 140, Section 1 et seq.); the
Paid Sick Time Law of Jersey City, New Jersey (Chapter 4 of the Jersey City
Municipal Code); Chapter 8.56 of the Revised General Ordinances of the City of
New Brunswick, New Jersey; Chapter 8, Article 5 of the Municipal Code of the
City of Plainfield, New Jersey; the Sick Leave for Private Employees Ordinances
of Elizabeth, New Jersey (Ordinance No. 4617); Irvington, New Jersey
(Ordinance No. MC-3513); Montclair, New Jersey (Chapter 132, Article I of the
General Legislation of the Township of Montclair, NJ); Morristown, New Jersey
(Ordinance No. O-35-2016); Newark, New Jersey (City Ordinance 13-2010);
Passaic, New Jersey (Ordinance No. 1998-14); Paterson, New Jersey (Paterson
Code Chapter 412) and Trenton, New Jersey; and any other ordinance, statute or
law requiring paid sick leave that is hereafter enacted. It is understood that the
Union and the AMPTP shall memorialize any such waiver for any newly-enacted
law by letter agreement.”
12. Productions Made for New Media
a. Delete the second and third paragraphs of Exhibit C re: Productions for New
Media to the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement
and of Sideletter No. 5 re: Productions for New Media of the Local #798
Supplemental Digital Production Agreement.
b. See attached charts for changes to terms and conditions for High Budget SVOD
Programs.
c. Low Budget SVOD Programs
Add a new Paragraph D.(2) (and renumber the existing Paragraph D.(2) as
D.(3)) to Exhibit C of the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement (and make conforming changes to Sideletter No. 5 re: Productions
Made for New Media to the Local #798 Supplemental Digital Production
Agreement) as follows:
“D. Terms and Conditions of Employment on Original New Media
Productions (Other than an Original “High Budget SVOD Program”)
***
“(2) Low Budget SVOD Programs
“(a) The terms and conditions set forth in this Paragraph D.(2)
shall be applicable prospectively only. They shall not apply to:
-30-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 31 of 50 ---

“(i) any program or series that would otherwise qualify
as a ‘Low Budget SVOD Program’ within the meaning of this Sideletter, for
which the principal photography of the program, in the case of a one-time
program, or the principal photography of the first episode, in the case of a series,
commenced prior to February 26, 2023; or
“(ii) any program or series that would otherwise qualify
as a ‘Low Budget SVOD Program’ within the meaning of this Sideletter, for
which the principal photography of the program or the first episode of the series
commenced on or after February 26, 2023, if such program or series was produced
pursuant to the terms of a bona fide license agreement with fixed and definite
terms entered into by the Employer prior to February 26, 2023.
“However, if such license agreement is entered into
subject to conditions precedent, then all such conditions must be satisfied prior to
February 26, 2023.
“Any program or series described in subparagraphs (i) or
(ii) above shall be subject to Paragraph D.(1) of this Sideletter. However, with
respect to any such program or series described in subparagraphs (i) or (ii) above,
if the licensee orders additional programs or episodes pursuant to the terms of the
license agreement after February 26, 2023 and the Employer has the right to
negotiate with respect to the material terms and conditions of the license for the
additional programs or episodes, then such additional programs or episodes shall
be subject to this Paragraph D.(2).2
“Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employer shall not
reduce the terms and conditions of employment previously provided to Local
#798-represented employees on programs or series covered by subparagraphs (i)
or (ii) above.
2 “In the event that the Employer asserts that a program or series is grandfathered under the
provisions of the second paragraph of Paragraph D.(2)(a) above, a limited number of representatives of
the IATSE, subject to the execution of a confidentiality agreement satisfactory in form to the Employer,
may inspect those portions of the license agreement that are relevant to determine whether the Employer
had the right to renegotiate with respect to the material terms and conditions of the license for the
additional programs or episodes. All information received or reviewed by representatives of the IATSE
shall be kept confidential, and neither the IATSE nor its representatives shall disclose any such
information, except as necessary to enforce its rights under this Agreement.”
-31-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 32 of 50 ---

“(b) Low Budget SVOD Programs Defined
“The terms and conditions set forth in Paragraph D.(2)(c) of
this Sideletter shall be applicable only to covered original, live action dramatic
new media productions (other than an ‘Experimental New Media Production’)
made for initial exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand consumer pay
platform which meet the following criteria (hereinafter ‘Low Budget SVOD
Programs’):
“Length of Program ‘Low Budget’ Threshold
as Initially Exhibited*
20-35 Minutes Less than $900,000
36-65 Minutes Less than $1,750,000
66 Minutes or more Less than $2,100,000
“* Original, live action dramatic new media productions
which are less than 20 minutes in length and made for
initial exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand
consumer pay platform are not subject to this Paragraph
D.(2), and, instead, are subject to Paragraph D.(1) of this
Sideletter, regardless of their budgets.
“(c) Terms and Conditions
“The terms and conditions applicable to a Low Budget
SVOD Program shall be those set forth in the 2022 Local #798 Major Film
Theatrical and Television Series Agreement for a long-form television motion
picture, except that:
“(i) Employees employed on a Low Budget SVOD
Program shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in Article 11(a)(3) for the period
two periods prior to the period in question (e.g., during the period February 26,
2023 to March 2, 2024, the wage rates for the period February 28, 2021 to
February 26, 2022 shall apply);
“(ii) Paragraph E.(5) of this Sideletter shall apply; and
“(iii) Rest periods shall be as provided in Article 15 or
Article 38, as applicable.”
-32-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 33 of 50 ---

Make conforming changes, including but not limited to, modifying the second
sentence of Paragraph B. of the Sideletter re Productions Made for New Media to
refer to Paragraph D.(1) rather than “Paragraph D.”
d. Mid-Budget SVOD Programs
Modify the current Paragraph D.(2) (to be renumbered as Paragraph D.(3)
conform footnote numbers as necessary) of Exhibit C of the Local #798 Major
Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement (and make conforming changes
to Sideletter No. 5 re: Productions Made for New Media to the Local #798
Supplemental Digital Production Agreement) to provide:
“D. Terms and Conditions of Employment on Original New Media
Productions (Other than an Original ‘High Budget SVOD Program’)
****
“(23) (a) The terms and conditions set forth in this Paragraph D.(3)
shall not apply to any program or series that continues in production on or after
[the first Sunday following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification] and
which qualified as a ‘Legacy’3 Mid-Budget SVOD Program or series, and
continues to qualify as a ‘Legacy’ Mid-Budget SVOD Program or series, pursuant
to Paragraph D.(2)(a)(i) or (ii) of the Sideletter re Productions Made for New
Media to the 2019 Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement.
“In addition, the terms and conditions set forth in this
Paragraph D.(3) shall not apply to a Mid-Budget SVOD Program or episodes of a
Mid-Budget SVOD series, the principal photography of which commences on or
after [the first Sunday following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification]
pursuant to a license agreement entered into prior to [the first Sunday following
the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification].4 Paragraph D.(2) of the Sideletter
3 “During the 2022 negotiations, the parties agreed as a matter of housekeeping to rename
‘grandfathered’ Mid-Budget SVOD Programs and series as ‘Legacy’ Mid-Budget SVOD Programs and
series.”
4 “If the licensee orders additional Mid-Budget SVOD Programs or episodes of a Mid-Budget
SVOD series, the principal photography of which will commence on or after [the first Sunday following
the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification], pursuant to a license agreement entered into prior to [the
first Sunday following the AMPTP’s receipt of notice of ratification], and the Employer has the right to
negotiate with respect to the material terms and conditions of the license for the additional programs or
episodes, then the Mid-Budget SVOD Program or episodes of the Mid-Budget SVOD series shall be
subject to the terms of the Sideletter re Productions Made for New Media to the 2022 Local #798 Major
-33-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 34 of 50 ---

re Productions Made for New Media to the 2019 Local #798 Major Film
Theatrical and Television Series Agreement shall apply instead, except that
minimum wage and fringe rates shall be subject to the increases negotiated during
the 2022 negotiations.
“The terms and conditions set forth in this Paragraph D.(2)
shall be applicable prospectively only. They shall not apply to:
“(i) any program or series that would otherwise qualify
as a “Mid-Budget SVOD Program” within the meaning of this Sideletter, for
which the principal photography of the program, in the case of a one-time
program, or the principal photography of the first episode, in the case of a series,
commenced prior to March 1, 2020; or
“(ii) any program or series that would otherwise qualify
as a “Mid-Budget SVOD Program” within the meaning of this Sideletter, for
which the principal photography of the program or the first episode of the series
commenced after March 1, 2020, if such program or series was produced pursuant
to the terms of a bona fide license agreement with fixed and definite terms entered
into by the Employer prior to March 1, 2020.
“However, if such license agreement is entered into
subject to conditions precedent, then all such conditions must be satisfied prior to
March 1, 2020.
“Any program or series described in subparagraphs (i) or
(ii) above shall be subject to Paragraph D.(1) of this Sideletter. However, with
respect to any such program or series described in subparagraphs (i) or (ii) above,
if the licensee orders additional programs or episodes pursuant to the terms of the
license agreement after March 1, 2020 and the Employer has the right to negotiate
with respect to the material terms and conditions of the license for the additional
Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement. In the event that Employer asserts that a Mid-Budget
SVOD Program qualifies as a ‘Legacy’ Mid-Budget SVOD Program under the provisions of the second
paragraph of Paragraph D.(3)(a) above, a limited number of representatives of the IATSE, subject to the
execution of a confidentiality agreement satisfactory in form to Employer, may inspect those portions of
the license agreement that are relevant to determine whether the Employer had the right to renegotiate
with respect to the material terms and conditions of the license for the additional programs or episodes.
All information received or reviewed by representatives of the IATSE shall be kept confidential, and
neither the IATSE nor its representatives shall disclose any such information, except as necessary to
enforce its rights under this Agreement.”
-34-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 35 of 50 ---

programs or episodes, then such additional programs or episodes shall be subject
to this Paragraph D.(2).5
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employer shall not
reduce the terms and conditions of employment previously provided to Local
#798-represented employees on programs or series covered by subparagraphs (i)
or (ii) above.
“(b) Mid-Budget SVOD Programs Defined
“The terms and conditions set forth in Paragraph D.(23)(c)
of this Sideletter shall be applicable only to original, live action dramatic new
media productions made for initial exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand
consumer pay platform which meet the following criteria (hereinafter
‘Mid-Budget SVOD Programs’):
Length of Program ‘Mid-Budget’ Threshold
as Initially Exhibited*
20-35 Minutes $900,000 or more but
less than $1,300,000
36-65 Minutes $1,750,000 or more but
less than $2,500,000
66 Minutes or more $2,100,000 or more but
less than $3,000,000
“* Original, live action dramatic new media productions
which are less than 20 minutes in length and made for initial exhibition on a
subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform are not subject to this
Paragraph D.(23) and, instead, are subject to Paragraph D.(1) of this Sideletter,
regardless of their budgets.
5 In the event that the Employer asserts that a program or series is grandfathered under the
provisions of the second paragraph of Paragraph D.(2)(a) above, a limited number of
representatives of the IATSE, subject to the execution of a confidentiality agreement satisfactory
in form to the Employer, may inspect those portions of the license agreement that are relevant to
determine whether the Employer had the right to renegotiate with respect to the material terms
and conditions of the license for the additional programs or episodes. All information received
or reviewed by representatives of the IATSE shall be kept confidential, and neither the IATSE
nor its representatives shall disclose any such information, except as necessary to enforce its
rights under this Agreement.
-35-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 36 of 50 ---

“(c) Terms and Conditions
“The terms and conditions for employees employed on a
Mid-Budget SVOD Program shall be those set forth in the 2019 2022 Local #798
Major Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement for a long-form television
motion picture, except that:
“(i) Employees employed on a Mid-Budget SVOD
Program shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in Article 11(a)(3) for the period
two one periods prior to the period in question (e.g., during the period March
1February 26, 2020 2023 to February 28, 2021 March 2, 2024, the wage rates for
the period March 4, 2018 February 27, 2022 to March 2, 2019 February 25, 2023
shall apply);
“(ii) Paragraph E.(5) of this Sideletter shall apply; and
“(iii) Rest periods shall be as provided in Article 15(b) or
Article 38(b), as applicable.”
e. Sunset Clause – Sideletter re Productions Made for New Media
Renew Paragraph H. of Exhibit C (the Sideletter re Productions Made for New
Media) to the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement and
Sideletter No. 5 to the Supplemental Digital Production Agreement, subject to the
modifications provided herein.
13. Holidays
Effective January 1, 2023:
a. Martin Luther King Jr. Day will replace Columbus Day as a recognized holiday
under Article 17 of Part III of the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and
Television Series Agreement.
An employee who does not work on Martin Luther King Jr. Day shall be paid for
the holiday on the basis of eight (8) hours at the employee’s regular straight time
hourly rate. In order for the employee to be eligible for pay for the Martin Luther
King Jr. Day holiday which is not worked, the employee must work the scheduled
workday before and the scheduled workday after the holiday. (If the next
scheduled workday before the holiday precedes (or the next scheduled workday
after the holiday follows) a hiatus of one (1) week or more, no holiday pay shall
be payable.)
-36-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 37 of 50 ---

b. Add Martin Luther King Jr. Day to the list of recognized holidays under Article
43 of Part IV of the Local #798 Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement.
c. Add Martin Luther King Jr. Day to the list of recognized holidays under Article
27(b) of the Local #798 Supplemental Digital Production Agreement. Increase
the unworked holiday percentage in the Local #798 Supplemental Digital
Production Agreement from 3.719% to 4% commencing with the period January
1, 2023 to and including December 31, 2023 and continuing in the period January
1, 2024 to and including December 31, 2024 and in the period January 1, 2025 to
and including December 31, 2025.
14. Studio Definition
Modify Article 16(h)(1) of the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement as
follows (and apply the same understanding to the Supplemental Digital Production
Agreement):
“(h) In addition, the parties agree to the following clarifications:
“(1) A meal need not be provided to employees working at a studio. A
‘studio’ shall be defined as any facility with a production office and one or more sound
stage(s) that is used for motion picture production on other than a temporary basis and
that is located within a radius of thirty (30) miles of Columbus Circle (the ‘thirty (30)
mile report-to-zone’) (as defined in Article 18(a)(1)). Examples of studios include but are
not limited to: Steiner Studios (Brooklyn), Silvercup Studios (Long Island City, Queens,
Bronx), Meadowlands Arena fka Izod Center, Kearny Point, Palisades Stages (Kearny,
NJ), Haven Studios (Mount Vernon, NY), 21 Caven Point Avenue (Jersey City, NJ).
having a certificate of occupancy for use as a studio as well as any facility which operated
as a studio prior to July 1, 1997, irrespective of whether it has a certificate of occupancy
as a studio or not. A subcommittee shall be established consisting of representatives from
the IATSE New York production locals and the Labor Relations representatives of the
Employers to review the definition of ‘studio’ in this provision. Employers may call a
meeting of the subcommittee to review whether a facility should be deemed a "studio" for
purposes of this Agreement when the facility is unable to obtain a certificate of
occupancy for use as a studio because the applicable governmental authority does not
issue such certificates.”
Make conforming changes.
-37-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 38 of 50 ---

15. Other Weather Conditions for “Weather Permitting” Calls
Modify Article 28(b) and (c) of the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series
Agreement and make conforming changes to Article 47(b) and (c), as well as Article
23(e) of the Supplemental Digital Production Agreement, as follows:
“(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) above,:
“(1) For the period commencing March 1, 2019 to and including May 4,
2019, Local #798 agrees that it will not unreasonably deny a request by the Employer to
cancel calls due to inclement weather (snow, sleet, ice storms, hurricanes) for those
employees working within a fifty (50) mile radius of Columbus Circle. The employee
must be notified of the cancellation no later than 8:00 p.m. the night before the call. This
provision shall also be applicable to calls for the first day of a new workweek (e.g.,
Monday) so long as the Employer makes an effort to inform employees on the last day of
the preceding workweek (i.e., Friday in the case of a Monday call) of the possibility that
the call will be cancelled and the employee is notified of the cancellation before 8:00 p.m.
in the evening prior to the call (i.e., Sunday in the case of a Monday call).
“(2) Effective May 5, 2019, the Employer may cancel calls due to
inclement weather (e.g., extreme heat, extreme cold, extreme wind, tornadoes,
Nor’easters, flooding, snow, sleet, ice storms, fire hazard as identified by the National
Weather Service, smoke conditions, hurricanes). The employee must be notified of the
cancellation no later than 8:00 p.m. the night before the call. The Employer may also
cancel calls for the first day of a new workweek (e.g., Monday) so long as the Employer
makes an effort to inform employees on the last day of the preceding workweek (i.e.,
Friday in the case of a Monday call) of the possibility that the call will be cancelled and
the employee is notified of the cancellation before 8:00 p.m. on the evening prior to the
call (i.e., Sunday in the case of a Monday call). Local #798 agrees that it will not
unreasonably deny a request by the Employer to cancel a call under this provision due to
other weather conditions.
“(c) Effective May 5, 2019, tThe Employer may issue a “weather-permitting”
call for inclement weather (e.g., extreme heat, extreme cold, extreme wind, tornadoes,
Nor’easters, flooding, snow, sleet, ice storms, fire hazard as identified by the National
Weather Service, smoke conditions or hurricanes) to employees prior to their dismissal
for the day and to persons not on payroll up to twelve (12) hours before their call time
(even if a call has previously been given). The Employer shall provide notice to Local
#798 upon the issuance of a “weather-permitting” call. Inadvertent failure to provide
notice to the Union is not subject to grievance and arbitration. The Employer may cancel
a “weather-permitting” call up to four (4) hours prior to the call time.
“In the event the employee is notified not to report to work, he or she shall
be paid four (4) hours of pay at straight time, and the Employer shall make contributions
-38-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 39 of 50 ---

to the Local #798 Pension Fund, IATSE National Health and Welfare Fund and the
IATSE Annuity Fund as follows: With respect to those portions of contributions that are
calculated at a “per hour” rate and those portions of contributions that are calculated as a
percentage of the applicable straight time hourly scale rate of pay, such contributions
shall be made on the basis of four (4) hours. With respect to those contributions that are
calculated at a “per day” rate or those portions of contributions that are calculated at a
“per day” rate, the Employer shall contribute one-third (a) of the “per day” rate.
“However, if the notification is untimely, the employee shall be paid for an
eight (8) hour minimum call.
“The foregoing is in addition to the Employer’s rights under Article 28(a)
and (b) above. Local #798 agrees that it will not unreasonably deny a request by the
Employer to issue a “weather-permitting” call under this Article 28(c) for other weather
conditions.”
16. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Replace Article 7.1 of the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement (and
Article 41 of the Supplemental Digital Production Agreement) with the following:
“ARTICLE 7.1. DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
“(a) Statement of Commitment. Acknowledging the critical importance of
diversity, equity and inclusion in the entertainment industry, Employers and the Union
mutually reaffirm their commitment to make good faith efforts to increase employment
opportunities for individuals from ‘underrepresented populations’ in order to foster a
more inclusive and diverse workforce in the motion picture industry. Historically,
‘underrepresented populations’ have traditionally been defined as women, racial and
ethnic minority, LGBTQIA, persons with a disability and other protected categories;
however, underrepresented classifications may vary per craft.
“In furtherance of this commitment, Employers, in partnership with the
Union seek to create one or more diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives that are
designed to enhance employment opportunities, as well as equip participants with the
requisite knowledge, skills and credentials to work successfully in the classifications
covered by this Agreement.
“(b) Self-Identification Data. During the 2022 negotiations, the parties
discussed the efforts that have been made by the Employers and Local #798 to obtain
information about the personal characteristics of their employees and the membership
through voluntary self-identification. The parties recognize that obtaining such
information is useful in expanding access to employment opportunities for
under-represented groups and for tracking the success of their efforts to diversify the
-39-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 40 of 50 ---

workforce. To that end, Local #798 agrees to encourage its members to voluntarily
self-identify when requested to do so by the Local, the IATSE or an Employer, including
when members are completing start paperwork for an Employer. To the extent that Local
#798 or the IATSE has aggregated diversity statistics concerning Local #798-covered
employees, Local #798 agrees to share the information with the Employer upon request,
or shall authorize the IATSE to share the information with the Employer, but no more
frequently than twice per year. To the extent that the Employer has aggregated diversity
statistics concerning Local #798-covered employees, the Employer agrees to share the
information with Local #798 upon request, but no more frequently than twice per year.
“(c) Training Program Opportunities and Joint Mentorship Program. In
connection with the parties’ commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion as set forth in
this Article 7.1, an individual Employer or the Employers, collectively, may discuss with
the Union the development, administration and oversight of program(s) for on-the-job
training within the motion picture industry in the make-up artist and hair stylist
classifications covered by this Agreement. The goal of the training program(s) shall be to
expand training program opportunities to enhance employment for individuals who are
under-represented in this industry. The types of training programs established may vary
depending on the experience of the candidates and the requirements of the classification
for which the training is provided, and shall be subject to the following: (1) the
Department Head consents to the placement of the trainee in the department; (2) a Hair
Stylist trainee must be licensed in cosmetology or barbering if required by applicable law;
(3) the trainee completes the “Safety First! Recommended Sanitation Practices for
Make-up and Hair” course offered by the IATSE Training Trust Fund (provided that the
course is online, takes no more than two hours to complete and is offered at no additional
cost to the Employer or the trainee) and any other safety training required to perform the
duties assigned as part of the training; (4) pre-training is provided to the trainee, the scope
of which may vary based upon factors including the trainee’s experience and skills and
the availability of pre-training programs in the jurisdiction where the trainee will be
working; pre-training may include, for example, programs run by Reelworks, Hair
Scholars or other mutually agreed upon pre-training, provided that the Union shall not
unreasonably deny approval of pre-training proposed by the Employer; (5) the trainee is
an additional hire to an otherwise fully staffed department; (6) no more than one trainee is
assigned to the department at a time; (7) the Employer shall notify Local #798 in writing
when it hires a trainee; (8) and the Employer shall provide Local #798 with contact
information in writing for the trainee.
“The parties agree that the foregoing training program(s) is (are) not the
only training program(s) permitted under this Agreement; rather, the Union and an
individual Employer or the Employers, collectively, may mutually agree to other training
program(s) with the same goals to expand employment opportunities.
“The parties also agree to create a joint mentorship program to foster
connections between mentors and individuals from under-represented groups or under-
-40-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 41 of 50 ---

served communities currently working in or entering the industry workforce through the
programs described in this provision with the goal of expanding access to those
individual’s opportunities for employment in the industry.”
17. Four (4) Hour Minimum Call For Training
a. Add a new subparagraph (c) to Article 12 (and Article 34, with conforming
changes) of the Major Film Theatrical and Television Series Agreement as
follows:
“(c) A four (4) hour minimum call shall apply for any day on which an
employee does not work and reports for training at the request of an individual
Employer. The Employer shall make contributions pursuant to Article 20. With
respect to those portions of contributions that are calculated at a ‘per hour’ rate
and those portions of contributions that are calculated as a percentage of the
applicable straight time hourly scale rate of pay, such contributions shall be made
on the basis of eight (8) hours.
“If the training exceeds four (4) hours, then an eight (8) hour
minimum call shall apply, and the Employer shall make contributions pursuant to
Article 20.”
b. Modify the third paragraph of Article 19(a)(3) of the Supplemental Digital
Production Agreement as follows:
“A four (4) hour minimum call shall apply for any day on which an employee
does not work and reports for training, at the request of an individual Producer,
reports for safety training. A daily ‘on call’ employee who reports for safety
training shall be paid one-half (½) of the daily ‘on call’ rate for each such day; a
weekly ‘on call’ employee shall be paid one-tenth (1/10) of the weekly ‘on call’
rate for each such day.
“The Employer shall make contributions pursuant to Article 30 or Article 31, as
applicable. With respect to those portions of contributions that are calculated at a
‘per hour’ rate and those portions of contributions that are calculated as a
percentage of the applicable straight time hourly scale rate of pay, such
contributions shall be made on the basis of eight (8) hours.
-41-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 43 of 50 ---

EXHIBIT "A"
(AMPTP-represented Companies)
1440 Productions LLC Lions Gate Productions, LLC
20th Century Studios, Inc. Love It NY Productions, Inc.
Main Gate Productions LLC
ABC Signature, LLC fka Touchstone Marvel Picture Works LLC
Television Productions, LLC Mesquite Productions, Inc.
ABC Signature Studios, Inc. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures Inc.
ABC Studios New York, LLC MGM Television Entertainment Inc.
Adobe Pictures, Inc. Minim Productions, Inc.
Alive and Kicking, Inc.
Ambient Sounds Productions LLC Netflix Productions, LLC
Apple Studios LLC Netflix Studios, LLC
Apple Studios Louisiana LLC New Line Productions, Inc.
New Regency Productions, Inc.
Big Indie Pictures, Inc.
Bonanza Productions Inc. Olive Avenue Productions LLC
On the Brink Productions, Inc.
CBS Studios Inc. Open 4 Business Productions LLC
Charlestown Productions LLC Orange Cone Productions LLC
Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc.
Pacific 2.1 Entertainment Group, Inc.
Delta Blues Productions LLC Palladin Productions LLC
DW Studios Productions, LLC Paramount Pictures Corporation
Patch Bay Productions LLC
Eye Productions Inc. Picrow, Inc.
Picrow Streaming Inc.
Film 49 Productions, Inc. PP21 Productions LLC
Focus Features Productions LLC
FTP Productions, LLC Rose City Pictures, Inc.
GWave Productions, LLC S & K Pictures, Inc.
Salty Pictures, Inc.
Hop, Skip & Jump Productions, Inc. San Vicente Productions, Inc.
Horizon Scripted Television Inc. Screen Gems Productions, Inc.
Hostage Productions, Inc. SLO Productions Inc.
Jay Squared Productions LLC Turner Films, Inc.
TVM Productions, Inc.
Kapital Productions, LLC Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation d/b/a
Kenwood TV Productions, Inc. 20th Television
Kiki Tree Pictures Inc.
Universal City Studios LLC
-43-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 44 of 50 ---

Universal Content Productions LLC
Warner Bros. Pictures
Warner Bros. Television
Warner Specialty Productions Inc.
wiip Productions, LLC
XOF Studios, LLC
YNFS Productions LLC
-44-
00273316.WPD; 3

--- PAGE 45 of 50 ---

2022 NY LOCAL 798 MAKE-UP ARTISTS AND HAIR STYLISTS NEGOTIATIONS
One-Time High Budget SVOD Programs - NY Local 798 Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists
Changes to rates apply only to High Budget SVOD Programs subject to a license agreement entered into on or after February 26, 2023
(or in the absence of a license agreement, the principal photography of which commences on or after February 26, 2023).
Budget 2019 Local #798 Agreement 2022 Local #798 Agreement
<66 Minutes Paragraph 4(a) of NM SL - n/a Article 11(a)(1) rates No change
(not pilot) Tier 1 made for 20M+ subs.
Paragraph (4(b) of NM SL - n/a NY/NJ/CT: No change
Tier 2 made for 20M+ subscribers; Article 11(a)(3) rates
all programs made for <20M subs. DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
Article 11(a)(3) rates reduced
by 10%
66-84 Minutes Paragraph (4(a) of NM SL - n/a Article 11(a)(3) rates No change
(not pilot) Tier 1 made for 20M+ subs.
Paragraph (4(b) of NM SL - n/a NY/NJ/CT: No change
Tier 2 made for 20M+ subscribers; Article 11(a)(3) rates
all programs made for <20M subs. DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
Article 11(a)(3) rates reduced
by 10%
PAGE 1 OF 3 One-Time HB SVOD Programs 00272501.XLSX

--- PAGE 46 of 50 ---

2022 NY LOCAL 798 MAKE-UP ARTISTS AND HAIR STYLISTS NEGOTIATIONS
One-Time High Budget SVOD Programs - NY Local 798 Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists
Changes to rates apply only to High Budget SVOD Programs subject to a license agreement entered into on or after February 26, 2023
(or in the absence of a license agreement, the principal photography of which commences on or after February 26, 2023).
Budget 2019 Local #798 Agreement 2022 Local #798 Agreement
85-95 Minutes Paragraph (4(a) of NM SL - <$20M* Article 11(a)(3) rates No change
(not pilot) Tier 1 made for 20M+ subs.
>=$20M* Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back
Paragraph (4(b) of NM SL - <$20M* NY/NJ/CT: No change
Tier 2 made for 20M+ subscribers; Article 11(a)(3) rates
all programs made for <20M subs. DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
>=$20M* NY/NJ/CT:
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back
Article 11(a)(3) rates reduced
DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
by 10%
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
Article 11(a)(3) rates
PAGE 2 OF 3 One-Time HB SVOD Programs 00272501.XLSX

--- PAGE 47 of 50 ---

2022 NY LOCAL 798 MAKE-UP ARTISTS AND HAIR STYLISTS NEGOTIATIONS
One-Time High Budget SVOD Programs - NY Local 798 Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists
Changes to rates apply only to High Budget SVOD Programs subject to a license agreement entered into on or after February 26, 2023
(or in the absence of a license agreement, the principal photography of which commences on or after February 26, 2023).
Budget 2019 Local #798 Agreement 2022 Local #798 Agreement
96+ Minutes Paragraph (4(a) of NM SL - <$20M* Article 11(a)(3) rates No change
(not pilot) Tier 1 made for 20M+ subs.
$20M* to $32M** Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back
>=$32M** Article 11(a)(1) rates; theatrical No change
terms and conditions
Paragraph (4(b) of NM SL - <$20M* NY/NJ/CT: No change
Tier 2 made for 20M+ subscribers; Article 11(a)(3) rates
all programs made for <20M subs. DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
>=$20M* NY/NJ/CT:
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back
Article 11(a)(3) rates reduced
DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
by 10%
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
Article 11(a)(3) rates
*Budget threshold subject to general wage increases in each year starting on March 3, 2024.
**$31,827,000 budget threshold subject to general wage increases in each year starting on February 27, 2022.
PAGE 3 OF 3 One-Time HB SVOD Programs 00272501.XLSX

--- PAGE 48 of 50 ---

2022 NY LOCAL 798 MAKE-UP ARTISTS AND HAIR STYLISTS NEGOTIATIONS
HB SVOD Episodic Series and Mini-Series - NY Local 798 Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists
Changes to rates apply only to High Budget SVOD series or mini-series subject to a license agreement entered into on or after February 26, 2023 (or in the
absence of a license agreement, a series for which principal photography of the first episode or part, as applicable, commences on or after February 26, 2023).
Platform Budget 2019 Local #798 Agreement 2022 Local #798 Agreement
Episodic Series
20-35 Minutes Made for Tier 1 Other than single-camera recorded digitally: no change
20M+ ($2.1M+) Article 11(a)(1) rates
subscribers
Single-camera recorded digitally:
1st season - Article 11(a)(2) rates;
2nd season - Article 11(a)(2) rates;
3rd/subseq. season - Article 11(a)(1) rates
Tier 2 NY/NJ/CT: NY/NJ/CT:
($1.3M - <$2.1M) 1st season - Article 11(a)(3) rates; 1st season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back;
2nd/subseq. season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 2nd/subseq. season - no change
DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/ DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV: NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
1st season - Article 11(a)(3) rates reduced by 10%; 1st season - Article 11(a)(3) rates;
2nd/3rd season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back; 2nd/subseq. season - no change
4th/subseq. season - Article 11(a)(2) rates
Made for Tier 1 NY/NJ/CT: $4.0M* or More:
<20M ($2.1M+) 1st season - Article 11(a)(3) rates; NY/NJ/CT:
subscribers 2nd/subseq. season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 1st season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back;
2nd/subseq. season - no change
DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV: DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
Tier 2 1st season - Article 11(a)(3) rates reduced by 10%; NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
($1.3M - <$2.1M) 2nd/3rd season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back; 1st season - Article 11(a)(3) rates;
4th/subseq. season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 2nd/subseq. season - no change
$1.3M - <$4.0M*: no change
*Budget threshold subject to general wage increases in each year starting on March 3, 2024
PAGE 1 OF 3 HB SVOD Episodic Series_Mini-Series 00272496.XLSX

--- PAGE 49 of 50 ---

2022 NY LOCAL 798 MAKE-UP ARTISTS AND HAIR STYLISTS NEGOTIATIONS
HB SVOD Episodic Series and Mini-Series - NY Local 798 Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists
Changes to rates apply only to High Budget SVOD series or mini-series subject to a license agreement entered into on or after February 26, 2023 (or in the
absence of a license agreement, a series for which principal photography of the first episode or part, as applicable, commences on or after February 26, 2023).
Platform Budget 2019 Local #798 Agreement 2022 Local #798 Agreement
Episodic Series
36-65 Minutes Made for Tier 1 ($3.8M+) Article 11(a)(2) rates no change
20M+
Tier 2 NY/NJ/CT: NY/NJ/CT:
subscribers
($2.5M-$3.8M) 1st season - Article 11(a)(3) rates; 1st season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back;
2nd/subseq. season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 2nd/subseq. season - no change
DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/ DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV: NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
1st season - Article 11(a)(3) rates reduced by 10%; 1st season - Article 11(a)(3) rates;
2nd/3rd season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back; 2nd/subseq. season - no change
4th/subseq. season - Article 11(a)(2) rates
Made for Tier 1 NY/NJ/CT: $8.0M* or more:
<20M ($3.8M+) 1st season - Article 11(a)(3) rates; NY/NJ/CT:
subscribers 2nd/subseq. season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 1st season - Article 11(a)(2) rates;
2nd/subseq. season - no change
DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/ DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV: NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
1st season - Article 11(a)(3) rates reduced by 10%; 1st season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back;
2nd/3rd season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back; 2nd/subseq. season - no change
4th/subseq. season - Article 11(a)(2) rates
$3.8M - <$8.0M*:
NY/NJ/CT:
1st season - Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back;
2nd/subseq. season - no change
DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
1st season - Article 11(a)(3) rates;
2nd/subseq. season - no change
Tier 2 $2.5M - <$3.8M - no change
($2.5M - <$3.8M)
*Budget threshold subject to general wage increases in each year starting on March 3, 2024
PAGE 2 OF 3 HB SVOD Episodic Series_Mini-Series 00272496.XLSX

--- PAGE 50 of 50 ---

2022 NY LOCAL 798 MAKE-UP ARTISTS AND HAIR STYLISTS NEGOTIATIONS
HB SVOD Episodic Series and Mini-Series - NY Local 798 Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists
Changes to rates apply only to High Budget SVOD series or mini-series subject to a license agreement entered into on or after February 26, 2023 (or in the
absence of a license agreement, a series for which principal photography of the first episode or part, as applicable, commences on or after February 26, 2023).
Platform Budget 2019 Local #798 Agreement 2022 Local #798 Agreement
Mini-Series
<66 Minutes Made for $2.1M+ for 20-35 min./ Article 11(a)(3) rates Article 11(a)(2) rates
20M+ $3.8M+ for 36-65 min.
subscribers
$1.3M-$2.1M for 20-35 min./ Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back
$2.5M-$3.8M for 36-65 min.
Made for $2.1M+ for 20-35 min./ NY/NJ/CT: NY/NJ/CT:
<20M $3.8M+ for 36-65 min. Article 11(a)(3) rates $8.0M* or more: Article 11(a)(2) rates
subscribers Less than $8.0M*: Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back
DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/ DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
$1.3M-$2.1M for 20-35 min./ NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV: NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
$2.5M-$3.8M for 36-65 min. Article 11(a)(3) rates reduced by 10% $8.0M* or more: Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back
Less than $8.0M*: Article 11(a)(3) rates
66+ Minutes Made for > $4M/part Article 11(a)(3) rates $9.5M* or more: Article 11(a)(2) rates
20M+ >$6.0M* - <$9.5M*: Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back
subscribers $3.0M - $4.0M/part $3.0M - $6.0M: no change to current
Made for > $4M/part NY/NJ/CT: NY/NJ/CT:
<20M Article 11(a)(3) rates $9.5M* or more: Article 11(a)(2) rates
subscribers >$6.0M* - <$9.5M*: Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back
DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/ $3.0M - $6.0M*: no change to current
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
Article 11(a)(3) rates reduced by 10% DC/DE/FL/GA/LA/MA/ME/MD/
$3.0M - $4.0M/part
NC/NH/PA/RI/SC/VA/VT/WV:
$9.5M* or more: Article 11(a)(2) rates 1x back
>$6.0M* - <$9.5M*: Article 11(a)(3) rates
$3.0M - $6.0M*: no change to current
*Budget threshold subject to general wage increases in each year starting on March 3, 2024
PAGE 3 OF 3 HB SVOD Episodic Series_Mini-Series 00272496.XLSX