SOURCE: Local_700_Combined_IATSE_Basic_2021-2027.pdf
PAGES: 277
============================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 277 ---

DOCUMENT NAVIGATION:
Click here to view the 2024 IATSE Basic Memorandum of Agreement.
Click here to view the full 2021 Basic Agreement.

--- PAGE 2 of 277 ---

July 3, 2024
GENERAL MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT OF AUGUST 1, 2024
between
ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS
and
INTERNATIONAL ALLIANCE OF THEATRICAL STAGE EMPLOYEES,
MOVING PICTURE TECHNICIANS, ARTISTS AND ALLIED CRAFTS
OF THE UNITED STATES, ITS TERRITORIES AND CANADA
FOR THE PRODUCER-I.A.T.S.E. BASIC AGREEMENT
AND WEST COAST STUDIO LOCAL AGREEMENTS
This Memorandum of Agreement is entered into as of August 1, 2024 between the International
Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts
of the United States, its Territories and Canada (hereinafter referred to as the “IATSE”), on its
own behalf and on behalf of its respective signatory West Coast Studio Locals (hereinafter
referred to as “Locals” and listed on Exhibit “A” attached hereto), (such International Alliance
and Locals being referred to individually as the “Union” and collectively as the “Unions”), on
the one hand, and the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (hereinafter
“AMPTP”) on behalf of those Producers which have effectively consented, in writing, to be part
of the single multi-employer bargaining unit (each hereinafter respectively referred to as the
“Producer” and collectively referred to as the “Producers” and listed on Exhibit “B” attached
hereto), on the other hand.
This Memorandum of Agreement reflects the complete understanding reached between the
parties. As soon as practicable, this Memorandum of Agreement will be reduced to formal
contract language. This Memorandum of Agreement is not contract language, except where the
context clearly indicates otherwise.
EFFECT OF CHANGES
All of the provisions of the current collective bargaining agreements between these parties shall
remain the same unless otherwise specifically changed as noted herein.
The appropriate provisions herein shall be incorporated in the “Wage Scales, Hours of
Employment and Working Conditions” of the West Coast Studio Local Agreements (referred to
as the “Local Agreements”) and/or in the Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement (referred to as
“the Basic Agreement”), unless otherwise specifically provided.
The provisions herein shall be effective as of August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later, unless a
contrary date is specified, in which case such provision shall be effective as of the date so
specified.
Ratification of this General Memorandum and the Local Agreements subject hereto constitutes
ratification of all Local and General issues.
00317375.DOCX; 14 1

--- PAGE 3 of 277 ---

In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. Term
The term of the Basic Agreement and the West Coast Studio Local Agreements shall be
for three (3) years, beginning August 1, 2024 and terminating on July 31, 2027.
2. Wages
Except as otherwise provided in the Local Memoranda of Agreements, minimum contract
wage rates in the West Coast Studio Local Agreements (and Amendment Agreements)
shall be increased by seven percent (7%) effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024 or
the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later]; by an additional four percent (4%) effective [insert date
that is August 3, 2025 or the first Sunday that is one year following the business day that
the AMPTP receives notification of ratification, whichever is later]; and by an additional
three and one-half percent (3.5%) effective [insert date that is August 2, 2026 or the first
Sunday that is two years following the business day that the AMPTP receives notification
of ratification, whichever is later]. These increases shall be compounded.
3. Pension and Health and Residuals
a. Increase Hourly Contribution Rate(s) to Health Plan
i. Increase all hourly contribution rates to the Active Employees Fund (see
Article XII(b)(1), (2) and (3)) by one dollar and nine cents ($1.09) per
hour effective [August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the business
day that the AMPTP receives notification of ratification, whichever is
later].
ii. Increase the “Basic Rate” in Article XII(b)(1) of the Basic Agreement for
Producers which qualify as a “$15 Million Contributor” and the rate for
contributors covered under Article XII(b)(3) of the Basic Agreement by an
additional thirty cents ($0.30) per hour for each hour worked by or
guaranteed an employee effective [August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday
following the business day that the AMPTP receives notification of
ratification, whichever is later], by an additional forty-five cents ($0.45)
per hour for each hour worked by or guaranteed an employee effective
[August 3, 2025 or the first Sunday that is one year following the business
day that the AMPTP receives notification of ratification, whichever is
later] and by an additional forty-five cents ($0.45) per hour for each hour
worked by or guaranteed an employee effective [August 2, 2026 or the
first Sunday that is two years following the business day that the AMPTP
receives notification of ratification, whichever is later].
00317375.DOCX; 14 2

--- PAGE 4 of 277 ---

iii. In recognition of the disproportionate level of Post ‘60s and Supplemental
Market contributions made to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans by certain signatory Producers, the parties agree to increase
the contribution rate in Article XIV(a) of the Basic Agreement for
Producers which do not qualify as a “$15 Million Contributor” by fifty-six
cents ($0.56) per hour for each hour worked by or guaranteed an employee
effective [August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the business day
that the AMPTP receives notification of ratification, whichever is later]
and to increase the “Premium Rate” in Article XII(b)(2) of the Basic
Agreement for Producers which do not qualify as a “$15 Million
Contributor” by an additional eighty-six cents ($0.86) per hour for each
hour worked by or guaranteed an employee effective [August 3, 2025 or
the first Sunday that is one year following the business day that the
AMPTP receives notification of ratification, whichever is later] and by an
additional eighty-six cents ($0.86) per hour for each hour worked by or
guaranteed an employee effective [August 2, 2026 or the first Sunday that
is two years following the business day that the AMPTP receives
notification of ratification, whichever is later].
b. Dental Plan Maximum
The bargaining parties agree to recommend that the Directors of the Motion
Picture Health Plan increase the Dental Plan maximum benefit to $2,500 per
calendar year effective January 1, 2025.
c. Pension Benefit Improvements
i. Recommendations to the Pension Plan Directors Re: Plan Year 2023
The bargaining parties agree to make the following recommendations to
the Directors of the Pension Plan:
(1) No participant shall incur a Break in Service for plan year 2023.
(2) All participants with 65 or more Credited Hours in 2023 shall be
credited with a pension Qualified Year for 2023.
ii. Thirteenth and Fourteenth Checks to Retirees Who Retired on or
Before August 1, 2009
The bargaining parties agree to recommend to the Directors of the Pension
Plan that the Pension Plan provide a thirteenth and fourteenth check on or
about November 1st of each year of this Agreement to those retirees who
retired on or before August 1, 2009 and who were employed under the
Basic Agreement and/or Videotape Agreement or who were not covered
by any collective bargaining agreement during their employment (i.e.,
“non-affiliates”), provided that the Pension Plan's actuaries, in conjunction
00317375.DOCX; 14 3

--- PAGE 5 of 277 ---

with the Health Plan's consultants, determine, taking into account the costs
of such thirteenth and fourteenth checks, that: (i) at least eight (8) months
of reserves exist in each of the Active Employees Fund and the Retired
Employees Fund at that time; (ii) the Plan is certified to be in the Green
Zone in the calendar year in which the check(s) are paid; (iii) the cost of
thirteenth and fourteenth checks, if any, granted during the term of the
Agreement shall be amortized over the fifteen (15) year amortization
period commencing January 1, 2017; and (iv) if there are insufficient
funds in the Pension Plan after accounting for existing obligations to
provide both a thirteenth and fourteenth check, then a thirteenth check will
be provided.
The foregoing Pension Plan improvements shall not be applicable to any
Plan participant who is covered by another collective bargaining
agreement, unless such collective bargaining agreement contains this
pension and health package on an equivalent economic basis.
iii. One-Time Payment for Retirees Who Retire Prior to January 1, 2025
The bargaining parties agree to recommend to the Directors of the Motion
Picture Industry Pension Plan that the Pension Plan make a one-time
payment equivalent to the value of one additional monthly check to those
retirees who retired prior to January 1, 2025 and who were employed
under the Basic Agreement or the Videotape Agreement or who were not
covered by any collective bargaining agreement during their employment
(i.e., “non-affiliates”).
iv. Improvement of Contingent Pension Benefit Increase(s) for Actives
Modify Article XIII.(f)(1) of the Basic Agreement as follows:
“(f) (1) Contingent Pension Benefit Increase(s) Effective January 1,
20242027 and Every Three (3) Years Thereafter
“The bargaining parties agree to recommend to the Directors of the
Pension Plan the following pension benefit increase(s):
“As soon as practicable following the end of the first
quarter of 20242027 and every three years thereafter (‘the evaluation
year’), the Health Plan's consultants, in conjunction with the Pension
Plan's actuaries, shall determine whether each of the Active Health Fund
and the Retired Employees Fund has at least eight (8) months of reserves
as of January 1st of the evaluation year, and the Pension Plan's actuaries
shall determine whether to certify that the Pension Plan is in the Green
Zone in the evaluation year. The foregoing determinations shall be based
upon the assumptions and methodologies, including but not limited to the
00317375.DOCX; 14 4

--- PAGE 6 of 277 ---

funding priorities established for Supplemental Markets and Post '60s
contributions, approved by the bargaining parties.
“In the event that the Health Plan's consultants certify that
each of the Active Health Fund and the Retired Employees Fund has at
least eight (8) months of reserves on January 1st of the evaluation year,
and the Pension Plan's actuaries certify that the Pension Plan is in the
Green Zone in the evaluation year, the pension benefit accrual rates shall
be increased, effective January 1st of the evaluation year, by ten percent
(10%)fifteen percent (15%) retroactively for Credited Hours accumulated
during the three (3) year period immediately following the most recent
increase in the pension benefit accrual rate; provided, however, that the
foregoing retroactive increase shall not apply to pensions (including
Frozen Benefits) that went into pay status prior to January 1, 2024. For
those individuals who had a Break in Service during the three (3) year
period immediately preceding January 1st of the evaluation year, the
increase shall apply only to Credited Hours accumulated after the date of
the most recent Break in Service. (For example, an active participant in
the Pension Plan on January 1, 20242027 who failed to accumulate at least
two hundred (200) Vested Hours in 20212024 and 20222025 is entitled to
the ten percent (10%)fifteen percent (15%) increase only for those
Credited Hours accumulated on or after January 1, 20232026.) Any
retroactive payments required above shall be made without interest and as
soon as practicable following the consultants’ certifications as provided
above.”
* * *
v. The foregoing Pension Plan improvements shall not be applicable to any
Plan participant who is covered by another collective bargaining
agreement, unless such collective bargaining agreement contains this
pension and health package on an equivalent economic basis.
vi. Amortization Period Extension
The bargaining parties agree to recommend to the Directors of the Motion
Picture Industry Pension Plan that the Pension Plan change the
amortization period for the Plan’s unfunded liability from seven (7) years
to eight (8) years, effective January 1, 2025.
d. Eliminate Reallocation of Post ’60s and Supplemental Markets Monies from
Pension and Health Plans to IAP and Producers
Delete Article XIIIA.(c) of the IATSE Basic Agreement. Make conforming
changes as necessary, including by deleting Article XIX.(b)(1)(vii) and
XXVIII.(b)(4)(v).
00317375.DOCX; 14 5

--- PAGE 7 of 277 ---

e. High Budget SVOD Primary Market Contribution, Performance Metric
Bonus Contribution and Secondary Market Contribution
Add a new Article to the Basic Agreement to provide as follows:
“[ ] Reuse of High Budget SVOD Programs
“For purposes of this Article [ ], ‘High Budget SVOD Programs’ are
defined as original and derivative dramatic new media productions made for
initial exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform
which meet the following ‘high budget’ criteria:
“Length of Program ‘High Budget’ Threshold
as Initially Exhibited*
“20-35 Minutes $1,300,000 and above
“36-65 Minutes $2,500,000 and above
“66 Minutes or more $3,000,000 and above
“* Programs less than 20 minutes are not considered “high budget” for the
purpose of this Article, regardless of their budgets.
“Only those covered High Budget SVOD Programs on which two (2) or
more ‘employees employed by Producer under this Agreement,’ as that term is
used in Article XIX(a) and in Article XXVIII(a)(2) of the Basic Agreement,[ ] are
so employed shall generate residual payments and then only in accordance with
the following. It is understood that any such High Budget SVOD Program, High
Budget SVOD mini-series or season of a High Budget SVOD series which
commences principal photography during the term of the 2024 Basic Agreement
shall be governed by the residual formulas set forth in this subparagraph (a) of the
2024 Basic Agreement in perpetuity.
“(a) High Budget SVOD Programs Subject to a Primary Market
Contribution
“(1) The provisions of this subparagraph (a) apply to the
following live action High Budget SVOD Programs:
“(i) any new season of a live action High Budget SVOD
series for which principal photography of the first episode of the season
commences on or after [August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the business
day that the AMPTP receives notification of ratification, whichever is later];
[ ] It is understood and agreed that any employee employed under the terms of the corresponding ‘Productions Made
for New Media’ Sideletter in either the Local #52 Agreement or in the Local #161 Agreement shall not be
considered an ‘employee employed under this Agreement’ for purposes of this Article [ ].
00317375.DOCX; 14 6

--- PAGE 8 of 277 ---

“(ii) any live action High Budget SVOD mini-series for
which principal photography of the first part of such mini-series commences on or
after [August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the business day that the
AMPTP receives notification of ratification, whichever is later]; and
“(iii) one-time live action High Budget SVOD programs
which commence principal photography on or after [August 4, 2024 or the first
Sunday following the business day that the AMPTP receives notification of
ratification, whichever is later].
“(2) The Producer shall have the right to use a one-time live
action High Budget SVOD Program, High Budget SVOD mini-series and season
of a High Budget SVOD series on all subscription video-on-demand consumer
pay platforms worldwide for a period commencing with the initial availability of
the Program on any such platform and continuing for ninety (90) consecutive days
thereafter in the case of a one-time Program; ninety (90) consecutive days after
the initial exhibition of the last part of the mini-series in the case of a mini-series;
and ninety (90) consecutive days after the initial exhibition of the last episode of
the season in the case of a series) (‘Initial Exhibition Period’), without payment of
residuals for such use.
“(3) In the event that the Producer makes available the one-time
live action High Budget SVOD Program, High Budget SVOD mini-series or
season of the High Budget SVOD series on any subscription video-on-demand
consumer pay platform beyond the Initial Exhibition Period defined in
subparagraph (a)(2) above, the Producer shall make a payment to the Motion
Picture Industry Health Plan (such payment hereinafter referred to as the ‘High
Budget SVOD Primary Market Contribution’) for each Exhibition Year, as set
forth below. Payment of the applicable High Budget SVOD Primary Market
Contribution for each Exhibition Year shall cover a fifty-two (52) consecutive
week period of use of the one-time High Budget SVOD Program, mini-series or
season of the series on all subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platforms
worldwide, commencing upon expiration of the Initial Exhibition Period or upon
commencement of the subsequent Exhibition Year, as applicable.
00317375.DOCX; 14 7

--- PAGE 9 of 277 ---

“The applicable High Budget SVOD Primary Market
Contribution shall be calculated by multiplying the total number of hours for
which hourly contributions were due for employees employed under this
Agreement on such one-time High Budget SVOD Program, High Budget SVOD
mini-series or season of the High Budget SVOD series by the applicable
Exhibition Year contribution rate set forth below:
Exhibition Year Contribution Rate
Year 1 Two dollars ($2.00) per hour
Year 2 One dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour
Year 3 Seventy-five cents ($0.75) per hour
Year 4 Fifty cents ($0.50) per hour
Year 5 Ten cents ($0.10) per hour
Year 6 Five cents ($0.05) per hour
Year 7 Five cents ($0.05) per hour
Year 8 Five cents ($0.05) per hour
Year 9 Three and one-half cents ($0.035) per hour
Year 10 Three and one-half cents ($0.035) per hour
Year 11 Three and one-half cents ($0.035) per hour
Year 12 Three and one-half cents ($0.035) per hour
Each Exhibition Two cents ($0.02) per hour
Year Thereafter
“If fewer than all episodes of the season of the High Budget
SVOD series are made available for exhibition during any Exhibition Year after
the first, payment of the High Budget SVOD Primary Market Contribution shall
be calculated based upon the total number of hours for which hourly contributions
were due for employees employed under this Agreement on those episodes which
are made available for exhibition.
“(4) Exhibition Year 1 as provided in subparagraph (a)(3) above
shall commence on the first day that the one-time High Budget SVOD Program,
the High Budget SVOD mini-series or the season of the High Budget SVOD
series, as applicable, is made available for exhibition on any subscription video-
on-demand consumer pay platform after the conclusion of the Initial Exhibition
Period defined in subparagraph (a)(2) above. Payment therefor shall be due
within sixty (60) calendar days following the close of the calendar quarter in
which Exhibition Year 1 commenced.
“Each Exhibition Year thereafter as provided in
subparagraph (a)(3) above shall commence with the first day that the one-time
High Budget SVOD Program, the High Budget SVOD mini-series or the season
of the High Budget SVOD series, as applicable, is made available for exhibition
on any subscription consumer pay platform following the expiration of the prior
Exhibition Year. Payment therefor shall be due within sixty (60) calendar days
00317375.DOCX; 14 8

--- PAGE 10 of 277 ---

following the close of the calendar quarter in which such Exhibition Year
commenced.
“Payment of the foregoing amounts covers all uses of the
one-time live action High Budget SVOD Program, live action High Budget
SVOD mini-series or season of the live action High Budget SVOD series in all
markets in perpetuity, except as otherwise provided in this Article [ ].
“(5) ‘Performance-Metric’ Bonus Contribution
“The following applies to a one-time live action High
Budget SVOD Program, High Budget SVOD mini-series and season of a High
Budget SVOD series that is eligible for a High Budget SVOD Primary Market
Contribution pursuant to Article [ ], subparagraph (a) above.
“Producer shall make an additional contribution to the
Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan for each one-time live action High Budget
SVOD Program, High Budget SVOD mini-series or season of a High Budget
SVOD series that has a ‘performance metric’ (see definition in subparagraph (i)
below) of twenty percent (20%) or more on the SVOD service for which it was
made (‘SVOD Service’).
“(i) Definition of ‘Performance Metric’[ ]
“The ‘performance metric’ is calculated by dividing
the total number of ‘domestic views’ (see definition in subparagraph (ii) below)
by the total number of domestic subscribers.[ ]
“Performance Metric = # Domestic Views
# Domestic Subscribers
[ ] Producer may rely on the determination by the SVOD Service whether eligibility for the ‘performance
metric’ has been met for any covered High Budget SVOD Program. Subparagraph (vi) is the sole mechanism for the
Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan to verify information about the ‘performance-metric’ bonus or its calculation.
[ ] For purposes of determining the ‘performance metric’ bonus contribution, the SVOD Service shall
determine the number of domestic subscribers as of July 1st of each year of the Agreement. The SVOD Service
shall apply that number when the one-time live action High Budget SVOD Program, High Budget SVOD mini-
series or season of a High Budget SVOD series is first made available on the SVOD Service on or after July 1st of
the measuring year but not later than June 30th of the following year. Likewise, the SVOD Service shall make a
separate determination of the number of domestic subscribers for each subsequent Exhibition Year as of July 1st of
each year of the Agreement by applying that number on the first day that the one-time live action High Budget
SVOD Program, High Budget SVOD mini-series or season of a High Budget SVOD series is made available in any
second or subsequent Exhibition Year on or after July 1st of the measuring year but no later than June 30th of the
following year. For example, if an SVOD Service has 25 million domestic subscribers as of July 1, 2023 and makes
the first episode of the first season of a High Budget SVOD series available on March 1, 2024, the applicable
number of domestic subscribers is 25 million for purposes of calculating the ‘performance metric’ bonus for that
season of the series.
00317375.DOCX; 14 9

--- PAGE 11 of 277 ---

“(ii) Definition of ‘Domestic Views’
“The number of ‘domestic views’ of a live action
High Budget SVOD mini-series or season of a live action High Budget SVOD
series is calculated by dividing the total hours streamed domestically during the
first ninety (90) days after each episode in the season of a live action High Budget
SVOD series or each part of a live action High Budget SVOD mini-series is made
available on the SVOD Service by the total runtime of all episodes in the season
or all parts of a mini-series.
“For a one-time live action High Budget SVOD
Program, the number of ‘domestic views’ is calculated by dividing the total hours
streamed domestically on the SVOD Service during the first ninety (90) days after
the one-time live action High Budget SVOD Program is made available on the
SVOD Service by the total runtime of the one-time live action High Budget
SVOD Program.
“(Both the hours streamed and the runtime are
determined by rounding to the nearest one-tenth (1/10th) hour.)
“Views = Total Hours Streamed Domestically in 1st 90 Days
Total Runtime (in hours)
“(iii) Subsequent Year Eligibility
“Eligibility for the ‘performance-metric’ bonus
contribution shall also be determined for each subsequent Exhibition Year as
defined in Paragraph (a)(3) above. The formula for determining eligibility is the
same as provided in paragraphs (i) and (ii) above, except that the total hours
streamed are counted for the first ninety (90) days of the subsequent Exhibition
Year.
“(iv) If the ‘performance metric’ is met, the Producer
shall make an additional payment of one hundred percent (100%) of the High
Budget SVOD Primary Market Contribution for the applicable Exhibition Year to
the Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan.
“Payment of the ‘performance-metric’ bonus
contribution shall be due sixty (60) days after the end of the calendar quarter in
which the ninety (90) day measuring period for domestic views is complete.
“(v) Example: Program XYZ is a High Budget SVOD
series with ten (10) episodes in its second season that are each 35 minutes in
length. Principal photography for the second season commenced on or after
[August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the business day that the AMPTP
receives notification of ratification, whichever is later]. At all relevant times, the
SVOD Service has fifty million (50,000,000) domestic subscribers. Collectively,
all episodes of the second season of Program XYZ had seventy million
00317375.DOCX; 14 10

--- PAGE 12 of 277 ---

(70,000,000) hours streamed domestically in the first ninety (90) days after the
episodes were made available on the SVOD Service.
“To determine whether the second season of
Program XYZ qualifies for a ‘performance-metric’ bonus contribution in its first
Exhibition Year, the total number of domestic views is determined by dividing the
total number of domestic hours streamed (seventy million (70,000,000) hours) of
all episodes in the second season by the total runtime in hours (5.8 hours rounded
as provided herein) of the second season. The ‘performance metric’ is then
determined by dividing the total number of domestic views (70 million/5.8 hours)
by the total number of domestic subscribers (50 million).
“Domestic Views = Total Domestic Hours Streamed = 70M
Total Runtime (in hours) 5.8
“Performance Metric = Domestic Views
Total Number of Domestic Subscribers
“= [70M hours ÷ 5.8 hours] ÷ 50M domestic subscribers
“= 0.241 (or 24.1%), which is greater than the twenty percent
(20%) threshold for payment and would, therefore, trigger payment
of the ‘performance-metric’ bonus contribution.
“Producer shall make an additional contribution in the amount of
100% of the High Budget SVOD Primary Market Contribution that
applies to Exhibition Year 1 of the second season of Program XYZ
to the Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan.
“(vi) Should the Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan
provide written notice to the SVOD Service and the Producer that it disputes
whether a covered High Budget SVOD Program qualifies for a ‘performance-
metric’ bonus contribution, the dispute shall be submitted promptly to a third
party jointly chosen by the SVOD Service and the Motion Picture Industry
Pension Plan for determination by audit (or other procedure determined by the
third party) (hereafter ‘audit’). The audit shall be for the sole purpose of verifying
to the Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan, the SVOD Service and the Producer
whether the one-time live action High Budget SVOD Program, High Budget
SVOD mini-series or season of a High Budget SVOD series is entitled to a
performance-metric bonus contribution (‘yes/no’). The third party must execute a
confidentiality agreement approved by the SVOD Service. The Motion Picture
Industry Pension Plan and the SVOD Service shall evenly split the costs and fees
associated with any such audit. The Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan and the
IATSE shall not be entitled to obtain information about the number of domestic
subscribers, the hours streamed domestically, the running time or the
‘performance metric’ of the High Budget SVOD Program.
00317375.DOCX; 14 11

--- PAGE 13 of 277 ---

“The Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan retains
any and all rights to pursue a claim should a Producer fail to pay the performance-
metric bonus contribution within sixty (60) days after the third party confirms that
such a bonus is due.
“(6) Reuse on Free-to-the-Consumer Advertiser-Supported New
Media Platforms, Free Ad-Supported Streaming Television (FAST) Channels,
Free Television or Basic Cable
“Producer shall have the right to use a High Budget SVOD
Program on any free-to-the-consumer advertiser-supported new media platform,
free ad-supported streaming television (FAST) channel, free television or basic
cable without the payment of residuals for a ninety (90) consecutive day period,
commencing with the first day of use of the High Budget SVOD Program on a
free-to-the-consumer advertiser-supported new media platform, free ad-supported
streaming television (FAST) channel, free television or basic cable.
“If the Producer uses the High Budget SVOD Program on a
free-to-the-consumer advertiser-supported new media platform, free ad-supported
streaming television (FAST) channel, free television or basic cable beyond such
ninety (90) consecutive day period, then Producer shall pay to the Motion Picture
Industry Health Plan 5.4% of the ‘Producer’s gross’ realized from any license
which includes use on any such platform beyond the ninety (90) consecutive day
period referred to above. Payment for such exhibition shall be due sixty (60) days
after the end of the calendar quarter in which the ninety (90) consecutive day
period ended.
“The term ‘Producer’s gross,’ for purposes of this
subparagraph (6), shall be as defined in [insert reference to the provision in the
2024 Basic Agreement containing the terms and conditions of Paragraph 3.a. of
the 2021 ‘Sideletter re Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted Via New
Media,’] (subject to conforming changes as necessary).[ ] In addition, the parties
agree that the residuals due under this subparagraph (6) shall be payable in the
same manner and to the same extent as applicable to pay television and pay-per-
view as provided in the following provisions of the Basic Agreement (subject to
conforming changes as necessary):
• Article XXVIII(b)(3)((i), (iii), (iv), (v); and
• Article XXVIII(b)(5)-(12).
[ ] For example, the phrase “‘Producer’s gross’ derived from new media exploitation” in the second paragraph
of [insert reference to the provision in the 2024 Basic Agreement containing the terms and conditions of Paragraph
3.a. of the 2021 ‘Sideletter re Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted Via New Media,’] shall be changed to
“’Producer’s gross’ derived from the exploitation.”
00317375.DOCX; 14 12

--- PAGE 14 of 277 ---

“(7) Reuse on Pay Television and Cassettes
“The applicable provisions of Article XXVIII with respect
to exhibition on ‘pay television,’ as that term is defined in Article
XXVIII(a)(3)(ii) of this Basic Agreement, shall apply when a covered High
Budget SVOD Program is exhibited on pay television. The applicable provisions
of Article XXVIII with respect to exhibition on ‘cassettes,’ as that term is defined
in Article XXVIII(a)(3)(i), shall apply when a covered High Budget SVOD
Program is exhibited on videocassettes or DVDs.
“(8) General
“It is understood that the tests for triggering Supplemental
Markets payments set forth in Article XXVIII of this Basic Agreement, including
the understandings set forth in subparagraph (g), shall also apply to residual
payments due under the terms of this subparagraph (a).
“(b) Reuse of Other High Budget SVOD Programs
“The provisions of this subparagraph (b) apply to High Budget
SVOD Programs which do not meet the test set forth in subparagraph (a)(1)
above:
“(1) Except as provided in subparagraph (b)(3) below, the
Producer shall have the right to use a High Budget SVOD Program on any
consumer pay platform (including any domestic or foreign subscription video-on-
demand consumer pay platform that is related to or affiliated with the subscription
video-on-demand consumer pay platform on which the High Budget SVOD
Program was initially exhibited) without payment of residuals.
“(2) Except as provided in subparagraph (b)(3) below, Producer
shall have the right to use a High Budget SVOD Program on any free-to-the-
consumer, advertiser-supported platform without payment of residuals.
“(3) If a High Budget SVOD Program is initially exhibited
simultaneously on a free-to-the-consumer, advertiser-supported platform and the
subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform (including any domestic or
foreign subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform that is related to or
affiliated with the subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform on
which the High Budget SVOD Program was initially exhibited), then Producer
shall have a twenty-six (26) consecutive week period of use on the subscription
video-on-demand consumer pay platform (including any domestic or foreign
subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform that is related to or
affiliated with the subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform on
which the High Budget SVOD Program was initially exhibited), commencing
with the first day of use on the subscription video-on-demand consumer pay
platform, without the payment of residuals.
00317375.DOCX; 14 13

--- PAGE 15 of 277 ---

“If the Producer uses the High Budget SVOD Program on
a consumer pay platform beyond such twenty-six (26) consecutive week period,
then Producer shall pay to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and/or Health
Plans 5.4% of the “Producer’s gross,” as that term is defined in [insert reference
to the provision in the 2024 Basic Agreement containing the terms and conditions
of Paragraph 3 of the 2021 ‘Sideletter re Exhibition of Motion Pictures
Transmitted Via New Media,’] realized from any license which includes use on
consumer pay platforms, which “gross” is attributable to use on consumer pay
platforms beyond the twenty-six (26) consecutive week period, measured from
the first day of use on the subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform
under the first license.
“Notwithstanding the foregoing, Producer shall have the
right to exhibit a High Budget SVOD Program (including any one-time program
or the first three (3) episodes of a new series) simultaneously on a free-to-the-
consumer, advertiser-supported platform and the subscription video-on-demand
consumer pay platform (including any domestic or foreign subscription video-on-
demand consumer pay platform that is related to or affiliated with the subscription
video-on-demand consumer pay platform on which the High Budget SVOD
Program was initially exhibited) for a period of seven (7) consecutive days for the
purpose of promoting the High Budget SVOD Program, without triggering
payment of residuals as provided in the preceding paragraph.
“(4) Reuse in Traditional Media
“The applicable provisions of Article XXVIII with respect
to exhibition on ‘pay television,’ as that term is defined in Article
XXVIII(a)(3)(ii) of this Basic Agreement, shall apply when a covered High
Budget SVOD Program is exhibited on pay television. The applicable provisions
of Article XXVIII with respect to exhibition on ‘cassettes,’ as that term is defined
in Article XXVIII(a)(3)(i), shall apply when a covered High Budget SVOD
Program is exhibited on videocassettes or DVDs.
“(5) General
It is understood that the tests for triggering Supplemental
Markets payments set forth in Article XXVIII of the Basic Agreement, including
the understandings set forth in subparagraph (g) of those Articles, and the
proration provisions in those Articles, shall also apply to residual payments due
under the terms of this subparagraph (b). Residual payments due under this
subparagraph (b) shall be prorated in the same manner as are Supplemental
Market monies under Article XXVIII of the Basic Agreement.”
Make conforming changes as necessary, including by deleting Paragraph G.(5) of
the Sideletter re: Productions Made for New Media in the Basic Agreement.
00317375.DOCX; 14 14

--- PAGE 16 of 277 ---

f. High Budget SVOD Episode Length
Add the following as a footnote to the provisions concerning High Budget SVOD,
High Budget AVOD and High Budget Fast Channel series in the West Coast
Studio Local Agreements:
“For purposes of determining minimum wages and other terms and conditions for
High Budget SVOD, High Budget AVOD and High Budget Fast Channel series,
the parties agree that an episode may exceed the ‘program length’ which applies
to a typical episode of the series by up to three (3) minutes without becoming
subject to the terms and conditions applicable to the next highest program length.
(For example, if a typical episode of a High Budget SVOD series is between 20
and 35 minutes, a given episode of a series which is 38 minutes in length will still
be subject to the compensation and terms and conditions applicable to a program
between 20 and 35 minutes in length.) The parties further confirm that this
applies to High Budget SVOD Programs produced under the Sideletter re
Productions Made for New Media in the 2015, 2018 and 2021 Basic Agreements.
This footnote shall not apply to individuals employed under the Local 892
(Costume Designers) Agreement on a High Budget SVOD, High Budget AVOD
or High Budget Fast Channel series for which the typical episode is between 20
and 35 minutes in length.”
4. Sideletters
a. Sideletter re: One-Half Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic
Television Series Made for Network
Incorporate the terms and conditions of the Sideletter re: “Special Conditions for
One-Half Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series
(Other than Pilots or Series Made for Basic Cable)” as a new paragraph in the
West Coast Studio Local Agreements, with the modifications set forth in the
charts attached as Exhibit “C” hereto. Except as otherwise set forth in this
Memorandum of Agreement, the applicable terms and conditions in the 2021
Basic Agreement shall remain unchanged.
b. Long-Form Sideletter
Incorporate the terms and conditions of the Sideletter re: “Special Conditions for
Long-Form Television Motion Pictures (Including Movies-of-the-Week, Mini-
Series and Two (2) Hour Pilots for Which No Commitment for a Series Exists at
the Time of the Pilot Order)” as a new paragraph in the West Coast Studio Local
Agreements, with the modifications set forth in the charts attached as Exhibit “C”
hereto. Except as otherwise set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, the
applicable terms and conditions in the 2021 Basic Agreement shall remain
unchanged.
00317375.DOCX; 14 15

--- PAGE 17 of 277 ---

c. Productions Made for Basic Cable Sideletter
Incorporate the terms and conditions of the Sideletter re: “Productions Made for
Basic Cable” as a new paragraph in the West Coast Studio Local Agreements,
with the modifications set forth in the charts attached as Exhibit “C” hereto.
Except as otherwise set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, the applicable
terms and conditions in the 2021 Basic Agreement shall remain unchanged.
d. Productions Made for New Media Sideletter
i. Incorporate the terms and conditions of the Sideletter re: “Productions
Made for New Media” of the Basic Agreement as a new paragraph in the
West Coast Studio Local Agreements, with the modifications set forth in
the charts attached as Exhibit “C” hereto and renew the sunset clause of
such sideletter. Except as otherwise set forth in this Memorandum of
Agreement, the applicable terms and conditions in the 2021 Basic
Agreement shall remain unchanged.
ii. Add a new subparagraph H. (and renumber the remaining subparagraphs
accordingly) regarding High Budget, Mid Budget and Low Budget AVOD
or FAST Channel Programs to the new Paragraph in the West Coast
Studio Local Agreements that contains the terms and conditions of the
Sideletter re: “Productions Made for New Media” (as modified herein),
as follows:
“H. New Media Productions Made for Initial Exhibition on a Free-to-
the-Consumer, Advertiser-Supported New Media Platform or Free Ad-
Supported Streaming Television (FAST) Channel
“(1) Prospective Application
“The provisions of this subparagraph H. apply to the
following ‘High Budget, Mid Budget and Low Budget AVOD or FAST
Channel Programs’ (as those terms are defined in subparagraph (2) below)
only:
“(a) any new season of a High Budget, Mid Budget or
Low Budget AVOD or FAST Channel series for which principal
photography of the first episode of the season commences on or after
[August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the business day that the
AMPTP receives notification of ratification, whichever is later];
“(b) any High Budget, Mid Budget or Low Budget
AVOD or FAST Channel mini-series for which principal photography of
the first part of such mini-series commences on or after [August 4, 2024 or
the first Sunday following the business day that the AMPTP receives
notification of ratification, whichever is later]; and
00317375.DOCX; 14 16

--- PAGE 18 of 277 ---

“(c) any one-time High Budget, Mid Budget or Low
Budget AVOD or FAST Channel programs which commence principal
photography on or after [August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the
business day that the AMPTP receives notification of ratification,
whichever is later].
“(2) High Budget, Mid Budget and Low Budget AVOD or
FAST Channel Programs Defined
“The terms and conditions set forth in this subparagraph H.
shall be applicable only to the following productions made for initial
exhibition on a free-to-the-consumer, advertiser-supported new media
platform (‘AVOD’) or a free ad-supported streaming television channel
(‘FAST Channel’):
“(a) Original and derivative dramatic new media
productions which meet the following ‘high budget’ criteria (hereinafter
‘High Budget AVOD or FAST Channel Programs’):
“Length of Program ‘High Budget’ Threshold
as Initially Exhibited*
“20-35 Minutes $1,300,000 and above
“36-65 Minutes $2,500,000 and above
“66 Minutes or more $3,000,000 and above
“* Programs less than 20 minutes are not considered
‘high budget’ for the purpose of this subparagraph, regardless of their
budgets.
“(b) Original, live action dramatic new media
productions which meet the following ‘mid budget’ criteria (hereinafter
“Mid Budget AVOD or Fast Channel Programs”):
“Length of Program “Mid-Budget” Threshold
as Initially Exhibited*
20-35 Minutes $900,000 or more but less
than $1,300,000
36-65 Minutes $1,750,000 or more but less
than $2,500,000
66 Minutes or more $2,100,000 or more but less
than $3,000,000
00317375.DOCX; 14 17

--- PAGE 19 of 277 ---

“* Original, live action dramatic new media
productions which are less than 20 minutes in length are not subject to this
subparagraph H. and, instead, are subject to subparagraph D.(1) of this
Paragraph, regardless of their budgets.
“(c) Covered original, live action dramatic new media
productions (other than an “Experimental New Media Production”) which
meet the following criteria (hereinafter “Low Budget AVOD or FAST
Channel Programs”):
“Length of Program “Low Budget” Threshold
as Initially Exhibited*
“20-35 Minutes Less than $900,000
“36-65 Minutes Less than $1,750,000
“66 Minutes or more Less than $2,100,000
“* Original, live action dramatic new media
productions which are less than 20 minutes in length are not subject to this
subparagraph H. and, instead, are subject to subparagraph D.(1) of this
Paragraph regardless of their budgets.
“(3) Terms and Conditions
“(a) High Budget AVOD or FAST Channel Programs
“The terms and conditions applicable to a High
Budget AVOD or FAST Channel Program, as defined in subparagraph
H.(2) above, shall be as provided in the 2024 IATSE Basic Agreement and
the West Coast Studio Local Agreements, subject to the modifications
below: [See the charts attached as Exhibit “C” hereto for applicable
terms and conditions.]
“(b) Mid Budget AVOD or FAST Channel Programs
“The terms and conditions applicable to a Mid
Budget AVOD or FAST Channel Program, as defined in subparagraph
H.(2) above, shall be as provided in the 2024 IATSE Basic Agreement and
the West Coast Studio Local Agreements, subject to the modifications
below: [See the charts attached as Exhibit “C” hereto for applicable
terms and conditions.]
00317375.DOCX; 14 18

--- PAGE 20 of 277 ---

“(c) Low Budget AVOD or FAST Channel Programs
“The terms and conditions applicable to a Low
Budget AVOD or FAST Channel Program, as defined in subparagraph
H.(2) above, shall be as provided in the 2024 IATSE Basic Agreement and
the West Coast Studio Local Agreements, subject to the modifications
below:” [See the charts attached as Exhibit “C” hereto for applicable
terms and conditions.]
e. Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted Via New Media Sideletter
Add a new Article to the Basic Agreement to incorporate the provisions of the
Sideletter re: Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted Via New Media and
renew the sunset clause therein.
f. Special Conditions in Local 700 Amendment Agreements (Third Area)
Modify Paragraph 3(b)(2)(A) of the Local 700 (Majors) Amendment Agreement
(and make conforming changes to Paragraph 3(b)(2)(A) of the Local 700
(Independents) Amendment Agreement) as follows:
“(b) Terms and Conditions for Employees Employed Outside the Scope
of Article 1 of the 20212024 Local 700 Post-Production (Majors) Agreement and
Outside the Scope of Paragraph 3(a) Above
* * *
“(A) Wages
“The wage rates set forth in Paragraphs 1 and 31 of the
2021 Local 700 Post-Production (Majors) Agreement or in the Videotape
Agreement as applicable, shall apply, except as follows:
“(i) (a) Except as set forth in (b) and (c) below,
when Employees are employed on one-hour episodic television series, or one-half
hour or one-hour pilots, the wage rates set forth in the applicable Agreement (i.e.,
in the 20212024 Local 700 Post-Production (Majors) Agreement or in the
Videotape Agreement) for the period immediately preceding the period in
question shall apply;
“(b) When employees are employed on one-hour
episodic television series, one-half hour or one-hour pilots, for which principal
photography of the pilot or the first episode of the season (in the case of a season
of a series) commences on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024 [September
29, 2024 in the case of the Videotape Agreement] or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is
later], the wage rates set forth in the applicable Agreement (i.e., in the 2024 Local
00317375.DOCX; 14 19

--- PAGE 21 of 277 ---

700 Post-Production (Majors) Agreement or in the Videotape Agreement),
reduced by three percent (3%), shall apply;
“(c) When employees are employed on new
mini-series produced in Los Angeles (other than mini-series made for basic cable)
for which principal photography of the first part of the mini-series commences on
or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024 [September 29, 2024 in the case of the
Videotape Agreement] or the first Sunday following the business day on which the
AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], the wage rates set forth
in the applicable Agreement (i.e., in the 2024 Local 700 Post-Production (Majors)
Agreement or in the Videotape Agreement), reduced by three percent (3%), shall
apply;
“(ii) (a) Except as set forth in (b) below, when
Employees are employed on productions of a type covered by the 2021 Sideletter
re: “Special Conditions for Long-Form Television Motion Pictures (Including
Movies-of-the-Week, Mini-Series and Two (2) Hour Pilots for Which No
Commitment for a Series Exists at the Time of the Pilot Order)” the wage rates set
forth in Appendix "A" attached hereto shall apply; and
“(b) When employees are employed on made-
for-television long-form projects (including movies-of-the-week and two (2) hour
pilots, provided that no commitment for a series is attached to the pilot order[ ])
produced in Los Angeles (other than those made for basic cable) for which
principal photography of the motion picture commences on or after [insert date
that is August 4, 2024 [September 29, 2024 in the case of the Videotape
Agreement] or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP
receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], the wage rates set forth in
Appendix "A" attached hereto (with hourly rates reduced by no more than ten
percent (10%)) shall apply;
“(iii) (a) Except as set forth in (b) and (c) below,
when Employees are employed on basic cable productions, the wage rates set
forth in Appendix “A” attached hereto shall apply to the pilot and first season of
an episodic television series, and the wage rates set forth in the applicable
Agreement (i.e., in the 20212024 Local 700 Post-Production (Majors) Agreement
or in the Videotape Agreement) for the period immediately preceding the period
in question shall apply to the second and third seasons of an episodic television
series;
“(b) When employees are employed on basic
cable pilots or episodic television series, for which principal photography of the
pilot or the first episode of the season (in the case of a season of a series)
commences on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024 [September 29, 2024 in
[ ] If there is a firm commitment for a series at the time the two (2) hour pilot is ordered, subparagraph (i) above shall
apply.
00317375.DOCX; 14 20

--- PAGE 22 of 277 ---

the case of the Videotape Agreement] or the first Sunday following the business
day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], the
wage rates set forth in Appendix “A” attached hereto (with hourly rates reduced
by no more than twelve and one-half percent (12.5%)) shall apply to the pilot and
first season of an episodic television series, and the wage rates set forth in the
applicable Agreement (i.e., in the 2024 Local 700 Post-Production (Majors)
Agreement or in the Videotape Agreement), reduced by three percent (3%), shall
apply to the second and third seasons of an episodic television series;
“(c) When employees are employed on a long-
form motion picture or mini-series produced in Los Angeles for basic cable, for
which principal photography of the motion picture or the first part of the mini-
series commences on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024 [September 29,
2024 in the case of the Videotape Agreement] or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is
later], the wage rates set forth in Appendix “A” attached hereto (with hourly rates
reduced by no more than twelve and one-half percent (12.5%)) shall apply;”
5. Rest Period Penalty
Modify the West Coast Studio Local Agreements (including the Amendment
Agreements) so that, effective for motion pictures, parts of a mini-series or
episodes of a series which commence principal photography on or after [insert
date that is the first Sunday that is 90 days after August 4, 2024 or the business
day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], all
invasions of the daily or weekend rest period for which the penalty is “additional
straight time for all such invaded time” shall be replaced with a penalty of
“additional double time for all such invaded time.” When this penalty is
applicable, if the rest period is invaded by one-half hour or less, the penalty shall
be payment of one-half hour of additional double time; if the rest period is
invaded by more than one-half hour, the penalty shall be computed in one-tenth
hour increments (e.g., a thirteen (13) minute invasion would result in payment of
additional double time for one-half hour, and a thirty-six (36) minute invasion
would result in payment of additional double time for six-tenths of an hour).
6. Courtesy Housing
Modify Article XXIX(a) of the Basic Agreement and Paragraph 21(e) of the
West Coast Studio Local Agreements as follows:
“Courtesy Housing or Transportation - Upon request of an employee who
When an employee is required to work in excess of fourteen (14) hours in the studio zone
and who advises the Producer that he or she is too tired to drive home safely, Producer
shall provide offer the employee either courtesy housing or round trip transportation, at
the Producer’s election. Round trip transportation shall be from the designated crew
parking area to home and return at the Producer's expense. Producer shall inform
employees of the availability of courtesy housing or round trip transportation.
00317375.DOCX; 14 21

--- PAGE 23 of 277 ---

Employees shall not be required to secure their own courtesy housing or round trip
transportation. Producer must supply and arrange for sufficient courtesy housing/round
trip transportation to accommodate all employees who may request the same. In this
circumstance, an employee who chooses to obtain transportation through a ride share
service such as Uber or Lyft shall be reimbursed upon submission of a receipt.
“Courtesy housing, when offered, must be available to the employee for at
least the applicable daily rest period, or until the employee’s call time, whichever is
earlier.
“Producer shall provide secured parking for employees utilizing courtesy
housing/round trip transportation when the employee’s vehicle is left at the production
location. If an employee has driven to the worksite when Producer offered the employee
transportation, Producer shall have no responsibility for the personal vehicle of an the
employee who elected to use his or her personal vehicle in lieu of Producer-provided
transportation.
“Producer shall include information on the call sheet informing employees
of these new provisions obligating the Producer to offer either courtesy housing or round
trip transportation, which shall include the name and contact information of the
individual responsible for coordinating the same on each production. Producer shall also
include a joint message from the Producer and the Union in the start paperwork
encouraging employees to utilize courtesy housing/round trip transportation and
reminding employees of their right to request the same whenever they are too tired to
drive.
“Provision of courtesy housing shall not trigger distant location terms and
conditions.”
Make conforming changes to the first paragraph of Article XXIX(d) of the Basic
Agreement, Paragraph 24 of the West Coast Studio Local Agreements, Paragraph (6)(iii)
of the Local 600 (Camera) Amendment Agreement and Paragraph 3(a)(12)(D) of the
Local 700 (Majors and Independents) Amendment Agreements.
Make conforming changes to Article XXIX(b)(2)(iii) of the Basic Agreement and
Paragraph 22(b)(3) of the West Coast Studio Local Agreements as follows:
“(iii) Courtesy housing shall be offered to those employees who work in
excess of twelve (12) hours in the secondary studio zone. In the alternative, the Producer
may provide round trip transportation to home and return at the Producer’s expense.
When an employee is required to work in excess of twelve (12) hours in the secondary
studio zone, Producer shall offer the employee either courtesy housing or round trip
transportation, at the Producer’s election. Round trip transportation shall be from the
designated crew parking area to home and return at the Producer's expense. Producer and
shall inform employees of the availability of courtesy housing or round trip
transportation. Employees shall not be required to secure their own courtesy housing or
round trip transportation. Producer must supply and arrange for sufficient courtesy
00317375.DOCX; 14 22

--- PAGE 24 of 277 ---

housing/round trip transportation to accommodate all employees who may request the
same. In this circumstance, an employee who chooses to obtain transportation through a
ride share service such as Uber or Lyft shall be reimbursed upon submission of a receipt.
“Courtesy housing, when offered, must be available to the
employee for at least the applicable daily rest period, or until the employee’s call time,
whichever is earlier.
“Producer shall provide secured parking for employees utilizing
courtesy housing/round trip transportation when the employee’s vehicle is left at the
production location. If an employee has driven to the worksite when Producer offered
the employee transportation, Producer shall have no responsibility for the personal
vehicle of the employee.
“Producer shall include information on the call sheet informing
employees of these new provisions obligating the Producer to offer either courtesy
housing or round trip transportation, which shall include the name and contact
information of the individual responsible for coordinating the same on each production.
Producer shall also include a joint message from the Producer and the Union in the start
paperwork encouraging employees to utilize courtesy housing/round trip transportation
and reminding employees of their right to request the same whenever they are too tired to
drive.
“Provision of courtesy housing shall not trigger distant location
terms and conditions.”
7. Bulletin Re: Meal Penalties
Producers agree to issue the following bulletin to appropriate production personnel:
“During the 2024 negotiations for the IATSE Basic Agreement, the Union raised
concerns that Producers use the twelve (12) minute grace period to delay meal periods
beyond six (6) hours from call or the last meal period (without payment of meal
penalties) on a daily or planned basis.
“This bulletin is a reminder that under the West Coast Studio Local Agreements, the
twelve (12) minute grace period ‘shall not be scheduled nor automatic nor is it intended
for everyday use.’ Please be sure that production personnel, particularly Assistant
Directors, are aware of this restriction on the use of the twelve (12) minute grace period.”
8. Juneteenth
a. Effective January 1, 2025, Juneteenth shall be added as a holiday in the West
Coast Studio Local Agreements and Amendment Agreements. Increase the
unworked holiday percentage (when applicable) from 4% to 4.583% commencing
with the period January 1, 2025 to and including December 31, 2025 and
00317375.DOCX; 14 23

--- PAGE 25 of 277 ---

continuing in the period January 1, 2026 to and including December 31, 2026 and
in the period January 1, 2027 to and including December 31, 2027.
b. Modify Paragraph 9(e)(4) of the West Coast Studio Local Agreements as follows:
“(4) The applicable percentage computation described under this
subparagraph (e) above shall not be applicable to any employee hereunder for any
calendar year in which he the employee is paid for nine (9) ten (10) recognized
holidays not worked (eleven (11) recognized holidays, effective January 1,
2025).”
9. Triple Time
The following shall be effective as of August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later:
a. Make the following modifications to Paragraph 11(a). (Language below taken
from Paragraph 11(a) of the Local 44 Agreement. Conforming changes to be
made to Paragraph 11(a) of the following Agreements: Local 80 (Grips and First
Aid), Local 600 (Camera), Local 695, Local 700 (Majors, Independents and
Labs), Local 705, Local 728, Local 729, Local 800 (Illustrators and Matte
Artists), Local 800 (Set Designers and Model Makers), Local 800 (Scenic, Title
and Graphic Artists), 871 (Script Supervisors), Local 884 and Local 892.)
“(a) (1) All time worked at a studio zone (or secondary studio zone)
location5 or nearby location, including a combination of work in the same shift of
work between a studio and any of such locations, in excess of fourteen (14)
consecutive hours (including meal periods) from the time of reporting for work
shall be Golden Hours and shall be paid for at the following rates:
“Occurring on Any Day Other than a Holiday or the Sixth
or Seventh Day Worked in an Employee's Workweek: Two (2) times the
scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fourteen
(14) consecutive hours and, effective for motion pictures, new mini-series and
seasons of series commencing principal photography on or after [insert date that
is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on which the
AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], three (3) times the
scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen
(15) consecutive hours.
“Occurring on the Sixth Day Worked in an Employee's
Workweek: Three (3) times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all
hours worked in excess of fourteen (14) consecutive hours and, effective for
motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series commencing principal
5 See Paragraph 21(d)(2) for the Golden Hour rules that apply when an employee reports for work outside
the studio and within the studio zone or secondary studio zone.
00317375.DOCX; 14 24

--- PAGE 26 of 277 ---

photography on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday
following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later], four and one-half (4.5) times the scheduled Regular Basic
Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen (15) consecutive hours.
“Occurring on the Seventh Day Worked in an Employee's
Workweek or Holidays: Four (4) times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate
for all hours worked in excess of fourteen (14) consecutive hours and, effective
for motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series commencing principal
photography on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday
following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later], six (6) times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all
hours worked in excess of fifteen (15) consecutive hours.
“(2) In a shift of work all of which occurs solely on the premises
in a studio, all time worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours (including
meal periods) from the time of reporting for work shall be Golden Hours and shall
be paid at the following rates:
“Occurring on Any Day Other than a Holiday or the Sixth
or Seventh Day Worked in an Employee's Workweek: Two (2) times the
scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of twelve
(12) consecutive hours and, effective for motion pictures, new mini-series and
seasons of series commencing principal photography on or after [insert date that
is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on which the
AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], three (3) times the
scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen
(15) consecutive hours.
“Occurring on the Sixth Day Worked in an Employee's
Workweek: Three (3) times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all
hours worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours and, effective for motion
pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series commencing principal
photography on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday
following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later], four and one-half (4.5) times the scheduled Regular Basic
Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen (15) consecutive hours.
“Occurring on the Seventh Day Worked in an Employee's
Workweek or Holiday: Four (4) times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate
for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours and, effective for
motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series commencing principal
photography on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday
following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later], six (6) times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all
hours worked in excess of fifteen (15) consecutive hours.
00317375.DOCX; 14 25

--- PAGE 27 of 277 ---

“(3) For "on production" employees who are employed on
television productions and whose shift of work occurs solely on the premises in a
studio, or at a studio zone (or secondary studio zone) location, or at a nearby
location, or at a combination of a studio and a studio zone (or secondary studio
zone) and/or nearby location, Golden Hours as provided in subparagraphs (1)
and (2) above and in Paragraph 21(d)(2) shall be based on hours worked, rather
than elapsed. For example, if such an employee works solely at a studio, all time
worked in excess of twelve (12) work hours shall be Golden Hours and shall be
paid for in accordance with subparagraph (2) above.”
b. Modify Paragraph (2) of the Local 600 (Camera) Amendment Agreement, as
follows:
“(2) Overtime
Except as provided otherwise in subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) below,
camerapersons working in the Corridor shall be paid time and one-half the
regular basic hourly rate for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per
day, double the regular basic hourly rate for hours worked after twelve
(12) elapsed hours, and two and one-half times the regular basic hourly
rate for hours worked after fourteen (14) elapsed hours and, effective for
motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series commencing
principal photography on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the
first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives
notice of ratification, whichever is later], three times the regular basic
hourly rate for hours worked after fifteen (15) elapsed hours.
“(i) Double time on productions covered under the Special Conditions
Sideletters listed in Paragraph (1)(a) of this Amendment
Agreement (other than the Home Video Sideletter) shall be paid
after twelve (12) hours worked.
“(ii) Overtime on a one-half hour or one-hour pilot, one-hour episodic
television series, long-form television motion picture, mini-series
or two (2) hour pilot for which no commitment for a series exists at
the time of the pilot order, the principal photography of which
commences prior to [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first
Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives
notice of ratification, whichever is later], shall be capped at double
the regular basic hourly rate.
“(iii) Overtime on productions made under the Home Video Sideletter
for which the Producer has elected to use the terms of the Long-
Form Television Sideletter shall be as provided in the Long-Form
Television Sideletter, i.e., time and one-half after eight (8) hours
worked, and double time after fourteen (14) hours elapsed and,
effective for motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series
00317375.DOCX; 14 26

--- PAGE 28 of 277 ---

commencing principal photography on or after [insert date that is
August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on
which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is
later], triple time after fifteen (15) hours elapsed.”
c. Modify Paragraph 11(a) of the Local 700 (Screen Story Analyst) Agreement as
follows:
“11. Golden Hour Provisions
“The following Golden Hour provisions shall be applicable only if the
employee is directed by the employee’s his Department Head to work in excess of
twelve (12) consecutive elapsed hours:
“(a) (1) In a shift of work all of which occurs solely on the premises
in a studio, or if a Story Analyst is instructed by the his Department Head to
perform the duties of a Story Analyst at home, all time worked in excess of twelve
(12) consecutive hours (including meal periods) from the time of reporting for
work shall be Golden Hours and shall be paid at the following rates:
“Occurring on Any Day Other than a Holiday or the
Sixth or Seventh Day Worked in an Employee's Studio Workweek: Two (2)
times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of
twelve (12) consecutive hours and, effective for motion pictures, new mini-series
and seasons of series commencing principal photography on or after [insert date
that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on which the
AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], three (3) times the
scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen
(15) consecutive hours.
“Occurring on the Sixth Day Worked in an
Employee's Studio Workweek: Three (3) times the scheduled Regular Basic
Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours and,
effective for motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series commencing
principal photography on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first
Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later], four and one-half (4.5) times the scheduled
Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen (15)
consecutive hours.
“Occurring on the Seventh Day Worked in an
Employee's Workweek or Holiday: Four (4) times the scheduled Regular Basic
Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours and,
effective for motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series commencing
principal photography on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first
Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
00317375.DOCX; 14 27

--- PAGE 29 of 277 ---

ratification, whichever is later], six (6) times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly
Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen (15) consecutive hours.
“(2) For "on production" employees only who are employed on
television productions and whose shift of work occurs solely on the premises in a
studio, or at a studio zone (or secondary studio zone) location, or at a nearby
location, or at a combination of a studio and a studio zone (or secondary studio
zone) and/or nearby location, golden hours as provided in subparagraph (1)
above shall be based on hours worked, rather than elapsed. For example, if such
an employee works solely at a studio, all time worked in excess of twelve (12)
work hours shall be Golden Hours and shall otherwise be paid for in accordance
with subparagraph (1) above.”
d. Modify Paragraph 11(a) of the Local 706 Agreement as follows:
“(a) (1) Except as provided below, all time worked at a studio zone
(or secondary studio zone) location4 or nearby location, including a combination
of work in the same shift of work between a studio and any of such locations, in
excess of fourteen (14) consecutive hours (including meal periods) from the time
of reporting for work shall be Golden Hours and shall be paid for at the following
rates:
“Occurring on Any Day Other Than a Holiday or the Sixth
or Seventh Day Worked in an Employee's Studio Workweek: Two (2) times the
scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fourteen
(14) consecutive hours and, effective for motion pictures, new mini-series and
seasons of series commencing principal photography on or after [insert date that
is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on which the
AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], three (3) times the
scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen
(15) consecutive hours.
“Occurring on the Sixth Day Worked in an Employee's
Studio Workweek: Three (3) times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for
all hours worked in excess of fourteen (14) consecutive hours and, effective for
motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series commencing principal
photography on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday
following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later], four and one-half (4.5) times the scheduled Regular Basic
Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen (15) consecutive hours.
“Occurring on the Seventh Day Worked in an Employee's
Studio Workweek or Holiday: Four (4) times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly
Rate for all hours worked in excess of fourteen (14) consecutive hours and,
4 See Paragraph 21(d)(2) for the Golden Hour rules that apply when an employee reports for work outside
the studio and within the studio zone or secondary studio zone.
00317375.DOCX; 14 28

--- PAGE 30 of 277 ---

effective for motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series commencing
principal photography on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first
Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later], six (6) times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly
Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen (15) consecutive hours.
“(2) (i) In a shift of work all of which occurs solely on the
premises in a studio, all time worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours
(including meal periods) from the time of reporting for work shall be Golden
Hours and shall be paid at the following rates:
“Occurring on Any Day Other Than a
Holiday or the Sixth or Seventh Day Worked in an Employee's Studio Workweek:
Two (2) times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in
excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours and, effective for motion pictures, new
mini-series and seasons of series commencing principal photography on or after
[insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day
on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], three (3)
times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of
fifteen (15) consecutive hours.
“Occurring on the Sixth Day Worked in an
Employee's Studio Workweek: Three (3) times the scheduled Regular Basic
Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours and,
effective for motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series commencing
principal photography on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first
Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later], four and one-half (4.5) times the scheduled
Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen (15)
consecutive hours.
“Occurring on the Seventh Day Worked in
an Employee's Studio Workweek or Holiday: Four (4) times the scheduled
Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12)
consecutive hours and, effective for motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons
of series commencing principal photography on or after [insert date that is August
4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP
receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], six (6) times the scheduled
Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen (15)
consecutive hours.
“(ii) If an employee reports for (drives to) work outside a
studio and within the studio zone (or secondary studio zone), all time worked in
excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours (including meal periods) from the time of
reporting for work shall be Golden Hours and shall be paid for at the following
rates:
00317375.DOCX; 14 29

--- PAGE 31 of 277 ---

“Occurring on Any Day Other Than a
Holiday or the Sixth or Seventh Day Worked in an Employee's Studio Workweek:
Two (2) times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in
excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours and, effective for motion pictures, new
mini-series and seasons of series commencing principal photography on or after
[insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day
on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], three (3)
times the scheduled Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of
fifteen (15) consecutive hours.
“Occurring on the Sixth Day Worked in an
Employee's Studio Workweek: Three (3) times the scheduled Regular Basic
Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours and,
effective for motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series commencing
principal photography on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first
Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later], four and one-half (4.5) times the scheduled
Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen (15)
consecutive hours.
“Occurring on the Seventh Day Worked in
an Employee's Studio Workweek or Holiday: Four (4) times the scheduled
Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12)
consecutive hours and, effective for motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons
of series commencing principal photography on or after [insert date that is August
4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP
receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], six (6) times the scheduled
Regular Basic Hourly Rate for all hours worked in excess of fifteen (15)
consecutive hours.
“(3) For ‘on production’ employees only who are employed on
television productions and whose shift of work occurs solely on the premises in a
studio, or at a studio zone (or secondary studio zone) location, or at a nearby
location, or at a combination of a studio and a studio zone (or secondary studio
zone) and/or nearby location, Golden Hours as provided in subparagraphs (1)
and (2) above and in Paragraph 21(d)(2) shall be based on hours worked, rather
than elapsed. For example, if such an employee works solely at a studio, all time
worked in excess of twelve (12) work hours shall be Golden Hours and shall be
paid for in accordance with subparagraph (2) above.”
00317375.DOCX; 14 30

--- PAGE 32 of 277 ---

e. Modify Paragraph 3(a)(8)(A)-(E) of the Local 700 Majors and Independents
Amendment Agreements as follows:
“(8) Premium Pay
“(A) Except as hereinafter provided, all work in excess of eight (8)
hours per day, or nine (9) hours in the case of Foley Artists, or forty (40) hours
per week shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
“(B) All work performed after twelve (12) continuous hours have
elapsed shall be paid for at the rate of double time, and all work performed after
fourteen (14) continuous hours have elapsed shall be paid for at the rate of two
and one-half times the Employee's regular rate of pay and, effective for motion
pictures, new mini-series and seasons of series commencing principal
photography on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday
following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later], all work performed after fifteen (15) continuous hours have
elapsed shall be paid for at the rate of three (3) times the Employee’s regular rate
of pay.
“(C) All work performed on the Employee's sixth day of work shall be
paid for at the rate of time and one-half, and all work performed after twelve (12)
continuous hours have elapsed on the sixth day of work shall be paid for at the
rate of double time, and all work performed after fourteen (14) continuous hours
have elapsed shall be paid for at the rate of two and one-half times the Employee's
regular rate of pay and, effective for motion pictures, new mini-series and seasons
of series commencing principal photography on or after [insert date that is August
4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP
receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], all work performed after fifteen
(15) continuous hours have elapsed shall be paid for at the rate of three (3) times
the Employee’s regular rate of pay.
“(D) All work performed on an Employee's seventh day of work shall
be paid at double time, and all work performed after fourteen (14) continuous
hours have elapsed shall be paid for at the rate of two and one-half times the
Employee's regular rate of pay and, effective for motion pictures, new mini-series
and seasons of series commencing principal photography on or after [insert date
that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on which the
AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], all work performed
after fifteen (15) continuous hours have elapsed shall be paid for at the rate of
three (3) times the Employee’s regular rate of pay.
“(E) All work performed on the holidays set forth in Paragraph 3(a)(10)
shall be paid at double time, and all work performed after fourteen (14)
continuous hours have elapsed shall be paid for at the rate of two and one-half
times the Employee's regular rate of pay and, effective for motion pictures, new
mini-series and seasons of series commencing principal photography on or after
[insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day
00317375.DOCX; 14 31

--- PAGE 33 of 277 ---

on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], all work
performed after fifteen (15) continuous hours have elapsed shall be paid for at the
rate of three (3) times the Employee’s regular rate of pay.”
* * *
f. For the Sideletter re: “Special Conditions for Long-Form Television Motion
Pictures (Including Movies-of-the-Week, Mini-Series and Two (2) Hour Pilots for
Which No Commitment for a Series Exists at the Time of the Pilot Order),” see
Item 4.b. above.
g. Assistant Production Office Coordinators and Art Department Coordinators
i. Add a new subparagraph to Paragraph 11(a) of the Local 871
(Production Office Coordinator, Assistant Production Office Coordinator,
Art Department Coordinator) Agreement as follows:
“Effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday
following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later], Assistant Production Office Coordinators
and Art Department Coordinators employed on a theatrical motion picture
shall be engaged on an hourly basis. Wage rates for such employees shall
be subject to individual negotiation between the employee and the
Producer.”
ii. Modify Paragraph 11(b)(2) of the Local 871 (Production Office
Coordinator, Assistant Production Office Coordinator, Art Department
Coordinator) Agreement as follows:
“(2) Overtime for Assistant Production Office
Coordinators and Art Department Coordinators employed on a television
motion picture (or on a theatrical motion picture, effective [insert date that
is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on which
the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later]) shall be
payable at the rate of one and one-half times the employee’s Regular Basic
Hourly Rate for time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or in
excess of forty (40) hours per week. Effective August 5, 2018, Overtime
for Assistant Production Office Coordinators and Art Department
Coordinators employed on a television motion picture (or on a theatrical
motion picture, effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first
Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later]) shall be payable at the rate of two times
the employee’s Regular Basic Hourly Rate for time worked in excess of
twelve (12) hours per day. Effective for motion pictures, new mini-series
and seasons of series commencing principal photography on or after
[insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
00317375.DOCX; 14 32

--- PAGE 34 of 277 ---

whichever is later], overtime for Assistant Production Office Coordinators
and Art Department Coordinators shall be payable at the rate of three (3)
times the employee’s Regular Basic Hourly Rate for time worked in
excess of fifteen (15) consecutive hours (including meal periods) in a day
from the time of reporting for work. Overtime shall not be compounded.”
Make conforming changes as necessary.
h. No modification shall be made to Paragraph 12 of the Local 871 (Script
Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants) Agreement.
10. Seventh Days and Holidays for “On Call” Employees
Add the following to all Agreements which have “on call” classifications, including by
adding the following as a new subparagraph (3) to Paragraph 1(b) of the following
Agreements: Local 44, Local 80 (Grips), Local 695, Local 700 (Majors and
Independents), Local 700 (Labs), Local 705, Local 728, Local 729, Local 800 (Scenic
Artists) and Local 800 (Illustrators). Make conforming changes by adding a new
paragraph to footnote 6 to Paragraph 1 of the Local 600 (Publicists) Agreement, footnote
1 to Paragraph 1 of the Local 706 Agreement, Local 800 (Art Directors) Agreement and
Local 892 Agreement and footnote 2 to Paragraph 1 of the Local 884 Agreement. (No
changes are required for the Local 871 (Production Office Coordinators and Assistant
Production Office Coordinators) Agreement, which already provides for two times one-
fifth of the ‘on call’ weekly rate for seventh days worked at the instruction of the
Producer.)
“(3) "On Call" Employee’s Seventh Day Worked Within the Employee's
Workweek
“Effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following
the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later],
if an employee hired under the "On Call" schedule is specifically instructed and required
by Producer to work on a seventh day within the employee's workweek, under the
direction and control of the Producer, the employee shall receive two times one-fifth (1/5)
of the ‘on call’ weekly rate in effect for each such day so worked.”
Make conforming changes as needed.
11. Climate Control
Producers agree to issue the following bulletin to the appropriate production personnel:
“During the 2024 negotiations for the IATSE Basic Agreement, the Union discussed that
employees, both on and off production, work under varied conditions, including a wide
range of temperatures. The Union raised concerns regarding on and off production
employees’ receipt of accommodations for heating (when working in a cold environment)
and cooling (when working in a hot environment).
00317375.DOCX; 14 33

--- PAGE 35 of 277 ---

“Accordingly, this bulletin serves as a reminder that Producers should endeavor to
provide those accommodations, which may include air conditioning or heating, fans,
shade or heating tents and similar accommodations, when the temperature calls for those
arrangements to be made. It is understood that the exact nature of the accommodations
may vary depending on the circumstances, such as availability in the location where the
work is taking place. It is also worth noting that open stage doors adversely affect the
efficiency of heating and cooling systems, and efforts should be made to minimize the
amount of time that stage doors are left open.”
12. Distant Location Provisions
a. Travel Time
i. The following modifications shall apply to Paragraph 39(a) of the
following Agreements: Local 44, Local 80 (Grips), Local 600 (Camera),
Local 695, Local 700 (Majors and Independents and Labs), Local 728,
Local 729, Local 800 (Illustrators and Matte Artists).
“(a) For any day of the week (including holidays) on which an
employee travels only, the employee shall receive an allowance of four (4)
hours of pay at straight time or pay for time actually traveled, whichever is
greater, but in no event more than eight (8) hours of pay at straight time.
‘On call’ employees who travel only to or from distant location shall be
paid an allowance of one-sixth (1/6) of the scheduled minimum weekly
‘on call’ rate for any day so traveled. Effective [insert date that is August
4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on which the
AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], Producer shall
make pension and health contributions based on the employee’s actual
travel time on such days, with a minimum of four (4) hours and a
maximum of eight (8) hours.”
ii. Modify Paragraphs 39(a) of the Local 80 (First Aid) Agreement and Local
800 (Set Designers and Model Makers) Agreement as follows:
“(a) For any day of the week (including holidays) on which an
employee travels only, the employee shall receive an allowance of four (4)
hours of pay at straight time or pay for time actually travelled, whichever
is greater, but in no event more than eight (8) hours of pay at straight time.
Effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following
the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later], Producer shall make pension and health contributions
based on the employee’s actual travel time on such days, with a minimum
of four (4) hours and a maximum of eight (8) hours.”
00317375.DOCX; 14 34

--- PAGE 36 of 277 ---

iii. Modify Paragraph 39(a) of the Local 600 (Publicists) Agreement as
follows:
“(a) Travel time occurring when a minimum call is not in effect
shall not be considered as work time. On any day of the week when an
employee travels only, the employee shall receive an allowance of four (4)
hours of pay at straight time or pay for time actually traveled, whichever is
greater, but in no event more than eight (8) hours of pay at straight time.
"On call" employees who travel only to or from a distant location shall be
paid an allowance of one-sixth (1/6) of the scheduled minimum "on call"
rate for any day so traveled. Effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024,
or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP
receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], Producer shall make
pension and health contributions based on the employee’s actual travel
time on such days, with a minimum of four (4) hours and a maximum of
eight (8) hours.”
iv. Modify Paragraph 39(a) of the Local 705 Agreement as follows:
“(a) For any day of the week (including holidays) on which an
employee (other than an "on call" employee) travels only, the employee
shall receive an allowance of four (4) hours of pay at straight time or pay
for time actually traveled, whichever is greater, but in no event more
than eight (8) hours of pay at straight time. For any day of the week
(including holidays) on which an "on call" employee travels only, the
employee shall receive an allowance of one-sixth (1/6) of the scheduled
minimum weekly "on call" rate for any day so traveled. Effective [insert
date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day
on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later],
Producer shall make pension and health contributions based on the
employee’s actual travel time on such days, with a minimum of four (4)
hours and a maximum of eight (8) hours.”
v. Modify Paragraph 39(a) of the Local 706 Agreement as follows:
“(a) For any day of the week (including holidays) on which an
employee travels only, the employee shall receive an allowance of four (4)
hours of pay at straight time or pay for time actually traveled, whichever is
greater, but in no event more than eight (8) hours of pay at straight time.
"On call" employees who travel only to or from distant location shall be
paid an allowance of one-sixth (1/6) of the scheduled minimum "on call"
rate for any day so traveled. Effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024,
or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP
receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], Producer shall make
pension and health contributions based on the employee’s actual travel
time on such days, with a minimum of four (4) hours and a maximum of
eight (8) hours.”
00317375.DOCX; 14 35

--- PAGE 37 of 277 ---

vi. Modify Paragraph 39(a) of the Local 800 (Scenic, Title and Graphic
Artists) Agreement as follows:
“(a) For any day of the week (including holidays) on which an
"on call" employee travels only, the employee shall receive an allowance
equal to one-sixth (1/6) of the scheduled minimum weekly "on call" rate
for any day so traveled. Effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or
the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives
notice of ratification, whichever is later], Producer shall make pension and
health contributions based on the employee’s actual travel time on such
days, with a minimum of four (4) hours and a maximum of eight (8)
hours.”
vii. Modify Paragraph 39(a) of the Local 800 (Art Directors) Agreement as
follows:
“(a) For any day of the week (including holidays) on which an
"on call" employee travels only to or from distant location, the employee
shall receive an allowance of one-sixth (1/6) of the scheduled minimum
weekly "on call" rate. Effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the
first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives
notice of ratification, whichever is later], Producer shall make pension and
health contributions based on the employee’s actual travel time on such
days, with a minimum of four (4) hours and a maximum of eight (8)
hours.”
viii. Modify Paragraph 39(a) of the Local 871 (Script Supervisors) Agreement
as follows:
“(a) For any day of the week (including holidays) on which an
employee travels only, the employee shall receive an allowance of four (4)
hours of pay at straight time or pay for time actually travelled, whichever
is greater, but in no event more than eight (8) hours of pay at straight time.
Effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following
the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later], Producer shall make pension and health contributions
based on the employee’s actual travel time on such days, with a minimum
of four (4) hours and a maximum of eight (8) hours.”
ix. Modify Paragraphs 39(a) of the Local 884 Agreement and Local 892
Agreement as follows:
“(a) “On call” employees who travel only to or from distant
location shall be paid an allowance of one-sixth (1/6) of the scheduled
minimum weekly “on call” rate for any day so traveled. Effective [insert
date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day
on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later],
00317375.DOCX; 14 36

--- PAGE 38 of 277 ---

Producer shall make pension and health contributions based on the
employee’s actual travel time on such days, with a minimum of four (4)
hours and a maximum of eight (8) hours.”
x. Modify Paragraph 17(c) and (d)(1) of the Local 871 (Production Office
Coordinator, Assistant Production Office Coordinator, Art Department
Coordinator) Agreement as follows:
“(c) Travel Pay
“(1) For any day of the week (including holidays) on
which an Assistant Production Office Coordinator or an Art Department
Coordinator employed on a television motion picture (or on a theatrical
motion picture, effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first
Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later]) travels only, the employee shall receive
an allowance of four (4) hours of pay at straight time or pay for time
actually traveled, whichever is greater, but in no event more than eight (8)
hours of pay at straight time. Effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024,
or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP
receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], Producer shall make
pension and health contributions based on the employee’s actual travel
time on such days, with a minimum of four (4) hours and a maximum of
eight (8) hours.”
“(2) For any day of the week (including holidays) on
which an "on call" employee travels only, the employee shall receive an
allowance of one-sixth (1/6) of the employee’s weekly rate. Effective
[insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later], Producer shall make pension and health contributions
based on the employee’s actual travel time on such days, with a minimum
of four (4) hours and a maximum of eight (8) hours.”
b. Sixth Day on Distant Location
Modify Paragraph 43 of the Local 600 (Camera) Agreement as follows:
“43. Sixth Day Worked on Distant Location
“Subject to any overtime requirements of this Agreement, the sixth
day worked in an employee’s workweek on distant location is a straight time
day.”
00317375.DOCX; 14 37

--- PAGE 39 of 277 ---

13. Artificial Intelligence
a. Add a new Article to the IATSE Basic Agreement to provide as follows:
“[XLIX]. Artificial Intelligence
“This Article [XLIX] applies prospectively on or after [insert the date that
is the first Sunday that is August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is
later].
“(a) Definitions
“The parties acknowledge that ‘Artificial Intelligence’ and ‘AI’
have become catchall names that generally refer to the ability of a machine-based
system to apply analysis and logic-based techniques to solve problems or perform
tasks and improve as it analyzes more data. An ‘AI System’ is any machine-
based system that uses AI as a core function.
“(1) Machine Learning. The parties acknowledge that machine
learning (‘ML’) is a subset of AI that enables machines to develop algorithms,
including via deep learning (as defined below), based on statistical inferences
drawn from patterns in submitted training data, including, but not limited to,
diffusion models and large language models, for the purpose of performing tasks.
Such tasks include, but are not limited to, predicting human behaviors,
disseminating information and generating content.
“(2) Generative Artificial Intelligence. The parties acknowledge
that generative artificial intelligence (‘Gen AI’) refers to a subset of ML that
generates new content including, but not limited to, text, video, audio, three-
dimensional (3D) models, code, and images. A ‘Gen AI System’ is any machine-
based system that uses Gen AI as a core function.
“(3) Deep Learning. The parties acknowledge that deep learning
refers to a subset of ML based on artificial neural networks that have multiple
layers of connected artificial neuron nodes processing data.
“(4) The terms ‘Gen AI’ and ‘Deep Learning’ are used for
convenience and this provision shall also apply to any technology that is
consistent with the foregoing definitions, regardless of its name or designation.
“(b) Existing Technologies and Practices
“The parties acknowledge that the Producers have historically
used digital technologies, including without limitation so-called ‘traditional AI’
technologies programmed to perform specific functions (e.g., CGI, VFX, sound
effects), and technologies such as those used during any stage of pre-
00317375.DOCX; 14 38

--- PAGE 40 of 277 ---

visualization, pre-production, production, post-production, marketing and
distribution and may continue to do so, consistent with their historical practices.
“(c) New Technologies and Practices
“(1) The parties acknowledge the importance of human
contributions in motion pictures and the need to address the potential impact of
the use of AI Systems on employment under the Basic Agreement, the Videotape
Electronics Supplemental Basic Agreement and the West Coast Studio Local
Agreements (collectively, the ‘Agreements’).
“(2) Use of New Technologies
“(i) A Producer continues to have the right to utilize
new technologies in connection with motion picture production, including in
connection with creative elements. Producer may require employees to use any
AI System1 or resulting output of such systems for use in connection with the
performance of covered work. Employees who are assigned to utilize an AI
System to perform services, including by inputting prompts or otherwise
overseeing the use of the AI System, shall continue to be covered under the terms
of the applicable Agreement while performing such work.
“(ii) The Producer will not require an employee to
provide prompts furnished by the employee in the performance of bargaining unit
work in a manner that results in the displacement of any covered employee.
“(iii) Should an employee use AI Systems in the
performance of covered work, the employee will be required to adhere to the
Producer’s policies (e.g., policies related to ethics, privacy, security,
copyrightability or other protection of intellectual property rights), which shall be
provided to the employee. In any event, the Producer retains the right to require
that an employee obtain consent from the Producer before using AI Systems, and
Producer retains the right to reject the use of AI Systems or any output from such
use, including when the use could adversely affect the copyrightability or
exploitation of the work or create other risks or liabilities for the Producer.
Producer agrees to provide the International Union with any written policies
governing the use of AI Systems by employees covered under this Agreement.
“A Producer’s decision to require an employee to
use an AI System in connection with the employee’s performance of bargaining
unit work, including for any creative elements or administrative tasks, will be
subject to consultation with the employee at the employee’s request, provided
that the requirements of production allow time for the consultation.
1 Should the Producer agree to use an employee’s own AI System, Producer and employee shall negotiate for
reasonable reimbursement for such use.
00317375.DOCX; 14 39

--- PAGE 41 of 277 ---

“(iv) The Producer shall indemnify the employee from
liability and necessary costs, including by providing the employee a legal defense
resulting from any claims arising from the use of AI Systems or the resulting
output occurring in the performance of the employee’s duties and within the
scope of the employee’s employment with Producer, subject to the conditions
that:
“(A) This subparagraph (iv) shall not apply in
any instance in which the injury, loss or damage is the result of or caused by, in
whole or in part, the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such employee;
“(B) Employee is not in breach of the
Producer’s policies which have been disclosed to the employee and the employee
has made appropriate disclosure of the use of AI Systems to the Producer;
“(C) Immediately upon the employee and/or the
Union being informed of any claim or litigation, the employee and/or the Union
shall notify Producer thereof and give Producer full details of any claim or the
institution of any action for which the employee seeks indemnification under this
subparagraph, including by delivering to the Producer every demand, notice,
summons, complaint or other process received;
“(D) Producer shall name or cover the employee
as an additional insured on its errors and omissions policies, if any, respecting
motion pictures; and
“(E) The employee shall cooperate fully in the
defense of any claim for which indemnification is provided in this subparagraph
(iv), including the attending of hearings and trials, securing and giving evidence
and obtaining the attendance of witnesses.
“(d) Implementation of Work Training Programs
“(1) The parties acknowledge that the preferred method of
addressing impact resulting from new technologies is through provision of work
training and other programs designed to foster new skills to improve
opportunities for employment and effective use of AI tools. The parties agree to
cooperate in the establishment of work training and other programs with respect
to covered work under applicable Agreements. A committee will be convened for
the purpose of formulating and implementing such training and other programs.
The training and other programs shall be designed in cooperation between the
parties and shall be focused on training employees in (A) skills required to
operate AI Systems associated with the employee’s current work classification
and/or (B) new skills required to transition to other classifications of work
covered by applicable Agreements. The parties agree that the committee shall
meet within ninety (90) days of contract ratification.
00317375.DOCX; 14 40

--- PAGE 42 of 277 ---

“(2) [Discussion of funding mechanism for training through
IATTF and CSATF.]
“(e) Ongoing Obligations
“(1) Joint Industry-Wide Meetings. The parties agree to meet at
least semi-annually during the term of the Agreements at the request of the
International Union to discuss and review information related to the Producers’
use and intended use of AI Systems in the production of motion pictures covered
under applicable Agreements, to the extent that such information has been made
publicly available. Topics for the meeting shall be identified in advance.
“(2) Each Producer agrees to meet quarterly with the
International Union, on a company-by-company basis, during the term of the
respective Agreements, at the request of the International Union. At such
meeting, Producer will identify any significant emerging technologies utilizing
AI Systems that the Producer is using or intends to use in motion picture
production which may affect persons covered by these Agreements. Because
Producer’s current and future technology may be discussed during these
meetings, and in order to protect Producer’s proprietary and/or confidential
information, trade secrets and intellectual property, the International Union
agrees that its representatives participating in these meetings will be limited to a
reasonable number of individuals (i.e., not to exceed eight [8]) representing
bargaining units for which the topics identified in advance to be discussed are
relevant, and each participating representative will execute a mutually agreed-
upon Confidentiality Agreement.
“(3) Topics for discussion at the meetings described in
subparagraphs (1) and (2) above may, in addition to other topics related to AI
Systems as proposed in advance of the meeting, include:
“(i) the extent to which jobs may have been affected as
a result of the use of AI Systems;
“(ii) physical safety protocols involving the use in work
environments of AI-controlled equipment including the use of AI-controlled
autonomous vehicles and/or robots;
“(iii) efforts to ensure that use(s) of AI Systems mitigate
against bias; and
“(iv) possible unique aspects of training for upskilling or
reskilling, in connection with subparagraph (d) above, of experienced bargaining
unit employees.
“(f) Claims for violation of this Article are arbitrable and must be
brought under this Agreement. All remedies are available with the exception of
00317375.DOCX; 14 41

--- PAGE 43 of 277 ---

injunctive relief. For clarity, the arbitrator shall have no authority to prohibit or
restrict the use of any AI System or the resulting outputs.
“(g) Except as explicitly set forth herein, it is understood that this
Article does not expand or contract any existing rights and obligations under
applicable Agreements. Nothing herein alters the scope of coverage under those
Agreements.
“(h) No employee shall be subject to scanning of their visual or vocal
likeness for use in a motion picture without the employee’s consent. Producer
shall provide the employee with a reasonably specific description of the intended
use. The consent must be clear and conspicuous and may be obtained through an
endorsement or statement in the employment contract that is separately signed or
initialed by the employee or in a separate writing that is signed by the employee.
A copy of the consent shall be provided to the Union in advance of it being
presented to employees. The employee’s consent to such scanning may not be a
condition of employment and the consent itself shall clearly state the same.”
b. Add a Sideletter to the Basic Agreement to provide as follows:
“During the 2024 negotiations, the parties reached agreement to add a new Article
XLIX to the Basic Agreement to address the Producer’s right to use new
technologies, including artificial intelligence and AI Systems (as those terms are
defined therein), in connection with motion picture production. Article XLIX was
the result of extensive discussions between the parties, including with their
respective experts, and calls for regular meetings between the parties during the
term to keep the Union advised and informed of developments in the use of AI
Systems affecting bargaining unit members. The parties acknowledge both the
Producer’s right to use new technologies involving AI System(s) in Article XLIX
and the Producer’s obligation, upon request of the Union, to negotiate over any
impact of such use on bargaining unit employees as required by law.
“Under the Basic Agreement, Producers may have additional obligations, and
other dispute resolution provisions may apply, under the ‘Technological Change’
clauses in many of the West Coast Studio Local Agreements as the result of the
introduction of an AI System. Should that be the case, those clauses, including
the protections provided therein, shall apply to employees working under those
Agreements in addition to the provisions of this Sideletter and Article XLIX.
“Understanding that Producers may adopt technological changes attributable to
AI System(s) under West Coast Studio Local Agreements that do not contain a
‘Technological Change’ clause, the parties agreed during the 2024 negotiations
that the ‘Technological Change’ clauses, as they exist in other West Coast Studio
Local Agreements, shall apply, in addition to the provisions of this Sideletter and
Article XLIX, to all technological changes that may result from the introduction
of an AI System.
00317375.DOCX; 14 42

--- PAGE 44 of 277 ---

“The parties confirm that a Producer may experiment with using an AI System for
the primary purpose of determining, under operating conditions, the feasibility
and/or adequacy of performance of any AI System and may test the AI System
under operating conditions by persons under the jurisdiction of the Basic
Agreement on a temporary basis. Those circumstances do not constitute a
technological change or otherwise impose any obligation on Producer, other than
those specifically set forth in Article XLIX to the Basic Agreement.”
14. Safety Officer Pilot Program
The Producers agree to implement a pilot program in New York and Georgia modeled on
California tax incentive legislation (California SB735) as follows during the period July
1, 2025 to and including June 30, 2026:
As part of that pilot program, each of the major studios shall identify at least one (1)
dramatic production of 75 minutes or longer in each state (to the extent the major studio
has a production shooting in that state) to participate in the pilot program. A dedicated,
qualified safety officer shall be engaged to conduct a risk assessment for the production
and shall be present on each day to implement the risk assessment.
It is understood that any production(s) chosen to participate in this pilot program may
also serve as the participating production under other collective bargaining agreements
containing similar obligations and that any production(s) chosen to participate in
analogous pilot program(s) under other collective bargaining agreements may conversely
serve as pilot program(s) under the IATSE Basic Agreement.
15. Vacations
Create a new footnote in Paragraph 72(e)(1) (“Vacations”) of the West Coast Studio
Local Agreements as follows:
“The term ‘eligible year’ shall be applied in the following manner with respect to
calendar year 2023: As to calendar year 2023 only, an employee shall be deemed to have
an ‘eligible year’ if the employee has worked at least forty (40) days.”
16. Severance Pay
a. Modify Paragraph 74(a)(1) of the West Coast Studio Local Agreements (and
Paragraph 19 of the Local 871 (Production Office Coordinator, Assistant
Production Office Coordinator, Art Department Coordinator) Agreement,
Paragraph 30 of the Local 871 Script Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants
Agreement and Paragraph 3(a)(28)(E) of the Local 700 Majors and Independents
Amendment Agreements) as follows:
“(1) (i) An employee employed by the Producer under this
Agreement or its predecessor agreements for one or more qualified years (as
00317375.DOCX; 14 43

--- PAGE 45 of 277 ---

defined in subparagraph (f) hereof) whose employment is severed after August 1,
20212024; or
“(ii) an employee who had at least one (1) qualified year (as
defined in Paragraph 74(f) of this Agreement) as of August 1, 1985 who has made
the required application for retirement to the Motion Picture Industry Pension
Plan at least sixty (60) days prior to retiring or has made the required application
for retirement to any private retirement plan referred to in Article XV of the Trust
Agreement of the Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan and who retires
“shall receive the applicable severance pay set forth below (as modified by
subparagraphs (c) and (d) hereof) unless such employee is disqualified for
severance pay purposes pursuant to subparagraph (e) hereof.
Qualified Years Number of Weeks of
Severance Pay
1-2 1
3-4 2
5-8 3
9 4
10 5
11-12 6
13-14 7
15 8
16 9
17 10
18 11
19 12
20 13
“An employee with twelve (12) or more qualified years, whose employment is
severed on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following
the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is
later] or whose retirement date is on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024 or
the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice
of ratification, whichever is later], shall receive an additional twenty-five percent
(25%) of the applicable severance pay set forth above.
“The rate at which severance pay is payable shall be
determined in the same manner as the rate at which vacation pay is determined
under the vacation pay provisions of this Agreement; provided, however, that the
base period used in computing the employee's average earnings shall, for the
00317375.DOCX; 14 44

--- PAGE 46 of 277 ---

purpose of severance pay, be based on the twelve (12) consecutive month period
ending on the date of severance, instead of the employee's personal income tax
earnings year used in computing vacation pay.”
b. Add a footnote to the definition of a “qualified year” in Paragraph 74(f) of the
West Coast Studio Local Agreements (and Paragraph 19(e) of the Local 871
(Production Office Coordinator, Assistant Production Office Coordinator, Art
Department Coordinator) Agreement, Paragraph 30(e) of the Local 871 Script
Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants Agreement and Paragraphs
3(a)(28)(E) of the Local 700 Majors and Independents Amendment Agreements),
as follows:
“Effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is
later], the definition of a ‘qualified year,’ for purposes of Paragraph 74(f), shall
be applied in the following manner with respect to calendar year 2023: As to
calendar year 2023 only, an employee shall be deemed to have a ‘qualified year’
if the employee has worked at least 94 days.”
c. The following modification applies to Paragraph 74(f) of the West Coast Studio
Local Agreements (and Paragraph 19 of the Local 871 (Production Office
Coordinator, Assistant Production Office Coordinator, Art Department
Coordinator) Agreement, Paragraph 30 of the Local 871 Script Coordinators and
Writers’ Room Assistants Agreement, Paragraph 3(a)(28)(E) of the Local 700
Majors and Independents Amendment Agreements):
Modify the definition of a ‘qualified year’ so that an employee whose
employment is severed on or after [insert date that is August 4, 2024 or the first
Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later] or whose retirement date is on or after [insert date
that is August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the business day on which the
AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], is required to have 170
work days within a 365 consecutive day period (rather than 200 work days) in
order to have a qualified year. The foregoing shall apply prospectively only (i.e.,
it does not apply to qualified years for which the work days occurred prior to the
effective date of this provision), except that when a 365 consecutive day lookback
period includes days that fall both within the term of the 2021 Agreement and
within the term of the 2024 Agreement, the employee will be awarded a
qualifying year if the employee worked 170 days within that 365 consecutive day
lookback period.
00317375.DOCX; 14 45

--- PAGE 47 of 277 ---

17. Bulletin re: Non-Roster Classifications
Producers agree to issue the following bulletin to the appropriate production personnel:
“During the 2024 negotiations for the IATSE Basic Agreement, the Local Unions asked
that employees they represent who are employed in job classifications for which no
hiring roster exists be given consideration for open positions in those job classifications.
Because the Local Unions may be able to recommend qualified personnel to fill open
positions, we encourage you to reach out to the applicable Local Union as a resource for
qualified personnel.”
18. Paid Sick Leave
a. Expanded Paid Sick Leave
Modify Article XLVI. of the Basic Agreement as follows:
“XLVI. Paid Sick Leave
“(a) Accrual. Eligible employees covered by the IATSE Basic
Agreement shall accrue one (1) hour of paid sick leave for every thirty (30) hours
worked for Producer, up to a maximum of forty-eight (48) hours or six (6) days
(up to a maximum of eighty (80) hours or ten (10) days, effective [insert date that
is January 1, 2025 or the first Sunday following the business day on which the
AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later]). (In lieu of the
foregoing hourly accrual of paid sick leave, and provided that advance notice is
given to the employee, a Producer may elect to provide employees, upon their
eligibility to use sick leave as provided below (i.e., upon working thirty (30) days
for the Producer and after their ninetieth (90th) day (forty-fifth day, effective
[insert date that is January 1, 2025 or the first Sunday following the business day
on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later]) of such
employment with the Producer (based on days worked or guaranteed), with a
bank of twenty-four (24) hours or three (3) days of sick leave per year (forty (40)
hours or five (5) days of sick leave per year, effective [insert date that is January
1, 2025 or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP
receives notice of ratification, whichever is later]), such year to be measured, as
designated by the Producer, as either a calendar year or starting from the
employee's anniversary date. Under this elected option, such banked sick leave
days may not be carried over to the following year.) Employees employed
outside California shall be eligible for such sick leave commencing February 1,
2022.
“(b) To be eligible to accrue paid sick leave, the employee must have
worked for the Producer for at least thirty (30) days within a one (1) year period,
such year to be measured, as designated by the Producer, as either a calendar year
or starting from the employee's anniversary date. Sick leave may be used in
minimum increments of four (4) hours upon oral or written request after the
00317375.DOCX; 14 46

--- PAGE 48 of 277 ---

eligible employee has been employed by the Producer for ninety (90) days (forty-
five (45) days, effective [insert date that is January 1, 2025 or the first Sunday
following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later]) (based on days worked or guaranteed), such period to be
measured, as designated by the Producer, as either a calendar year or starting from
the employee's anniversary date. Reasonable advance notification of the need for
sick leave is required if the use is foreseeable; otherwise, notice is required as
soon as practicable. Sick days accrued on an hourly basis shall carry over to the
following year of employment; however, the Producer may limit the use of such
accrued time to no more than twenty-four (24) hours or three (3) days (no more
than forty (40) hours or five (5) days, effective [insert date that is January 1,
2025 or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives
notice of ratification, whichever is later]) during each year of employment as
defined by the Employer in advance. To the extent the employee is eligible for
paid sick leave in a jurisdiction with a law that cannot be waived in a collective
bargaining agreement, any sick leave paid pursuant to the law shall count towards
satisfying the Producer’s obligations to provide paid sick leave under this Article
XLVI.
“(c) For employees employed on an hourly or daily basis, a day of sick
leave pay shall be equal to eight (8) hours' pay at the employee's straight time
hourly rate. If a four (4) hour increment of sick leave is taken, the employee shall
be paid four (4) hours of pay at the employee’s his straight time hourly rate. For
weekly employees (including "on call" employees), a day of sick leave pay shall
be equal to one-fifth (1/5th) of the employee's weekly rate under the studio
minimum wage scales or one-sixth (1/6th) of the employee's weekly rate under
the distant location minimum wage scales (or fifty percent (50%) thereof for a
four (4) hour increment of sick leave taken). Replacements for weekly employees
(including "on call" employees) may be hired on a pro rata basis of the weekly
rate regardless of any contrary provision in this Agreement. The employee shall
not be required to find a replacement as a condition of exercising the employee’s
his right to paid sick leave.
“(d) Sick leave may be taken for the diagnosis, care or treatment of an existing
health condition of, or preventive care for, the employee or the employee's
"family member."23 Sick leave also may be taken by an employee who is a victim
of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking.
23 "Family member" means any of the following: (1) a biological, adopted or foster child,
stepchild, legal ward or a child to whom the employee stands in loco parentis; (2) a biological,
adoptive or foster parent, stepparent or legal guardian of the employee or the employee's spouse
or registered domestic partner or a person who stood in loco parentis when the employee was a
minor child; (3) a spouse; (4) a registered domestic partner; (5) a grandparent; (6) a grandchild;
or (7) a sibling.
00317375.DOCX; 14 47

--- PAGE 49 of 277 ---

“(e) Accrued, unused sick leave is not paid out on termination,
resignation or other separation from employment. If an employee is rehired by
the Producer within one (1) year of the employee's separation from employment,
the employee's accrued and unused sick leave shall be reinstated, and the
employee may begin using the accrued sick leave upon rehire if the employee was
previously eligible to use the sick leave or once the employee becomes eligible as
provided above.
“(f) Producer shall include in the employee's start paperwork the
contact information for the designated Producer representative whom the
employee may contact to confirm eligibility and the amount of accrued sick leave
available. Such start paperwork shall also include information with respect to the
year period (i.e., calendar year or the employee's anniversary date) that the
Producer selected to measure the thirty (30) day and ninety (90) day (forty-five
(45) day, effective [insert date that is January 1, 2025 or the first Sunday
following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later]) eligibility periods and the cap on accrual set forth in
subparagraph (b) above or, alternatively, if the Producer elected to provide
employees with a sick leave bank, the year period (i.e., calendar year or the
employee's anniversary date) that the Producer selected for the bank of three (3)
sick days (five (5) sick days, effective [insert date that is January 1, 2025 or the
first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later]) as provided in subparagraph (a) above. Producer
also shall notify the West Coast office of the IATSE of the name and contact
information of the designated Producer representative.
“(g) Any Producer that, as of June 30, 2015, had a sick leave policy, or
paid leave or paid time off policy that permits the use of paid sick time with
respect to eligible employees working in California or that, as of February 1,
2022, has a sick leave policy, or paid leave or paid time off policy that permits the
use of paid sick time for all other eligible employees, may continue such policy in
lieu of the foregoing. Nothing shall prevent a Producer from negotiating a sick
leave policy with better terms and conditions. There shall be no discrimination or
retaliation against any employee for the exerciseing of the employee’s his or her
right to use paid sick leave.
“(h) Any dispute with respect to sick leave for employees covered
under the West Coast Studio Local Agreements shall be subject to the grievance
and arbitration procedures provided therein.”
Make conforming changes to the Paid Sick Leave provisions of the West Coast
Studio Local Agreements: Article 12 of the Local 44 Agreement, Local 80 (Grips)
Agreement, Local 80 (First Aid) Agreement, Local 600 (Camera) Agreement,
Local 700 (Labs) Agreement, Local 705 Agreement, Local 706 Agreement, Local
728 Agreement, Local 729 Agreement, Local 800 (Illustrators) Agreement, Local
800 (Scenic Artists) Agreement, Local 800 (Set Designers) Agreement, Local 871
00317375.DOCX; 14 48

--- PAGE 50 of 277 ---

(Script Supervisors) Agreement, Local 884 Agreement; Article 13 of the Local
600 (Publicists) Agreement, Local 695 Agreement, Local 700 (Editorial)
Agreement (Majors), Local 700 (Editorial) Agreement (Independents), Local 700
(Screen Story Analysts) Agreement, Local 800 (Art Directors) Agreement, Local
892 Agreement; Article 26 of the Local 871 (Production Office Coordinators,
Assistant Production Office Coordinators and Art Department Coordinators)
Amendment Agreement; and Article 27 of the Local 871 (Script Coordinators and
Writers’ Room Assistants) Agreement. Additionally, make conforming changes to
Paragraph 3(a)(23)(A) of the Local #700 Amendment Agreements
(Majors/Independents).
b. Housekeeping – Update Sick Leave Waivers
Modify Article XLVII. of the Basic Agreement (and the corresponding provisions
of the West Coast Studio Local Agreements, including Amendment Agreements)
as follows:
“XLVII. Waiver of New York City Earned Safe and Sick Time
Act and Similar Laws
“The Union expressly waives, to the full extent permitted by law,
application of the following to all employees employed under this Agreement:
the New York City Earned Safe and Sick Time Act of 2013 (N.Y.C. Admin.
Code, Section 20-911 et seq.); the New York State Paid Sick Leave Law of 2020
(New York Labor Law Section 196-B); the Illinois Paid Leave for All Workers
Act (P.A. 102-1143); the Chicago Paid Sick Leave Ordinance (Section 6-105-045
of the Municipal Code of Chicago); the Chicago Paid Leave and Paid Sick and
Safe Leave Ordinance (Chapter 6-130 of the Municipal Code of Chicago); the
Cook County Earned Paid Sick Leave Ordinance (Chapter 42, Article I, Section
42-1 et seq. of the Cook County Code); the San Francisco Paid Sick Leave
Ordinance (San Francisco Administrative Code Section 12W); the Public Health
Emergency Leave Ordinance (San Francisco Police Code Article 33P); the Paid
Sick Leave Ordinance of Berkeley, California (Chapter 13.100 of the Berkeley
Municipal Code); all requirements pertaining to "paid sick leave" in Chapter 37 of
Title 5 of the Municipal Code of Emeryville, California, (including, but not
limited to, Chapter 37.01.(e), 37.03, 37.07(a)(1)(ii)(B), and 37.07(f)); the City of
Los Angeles Emergency Order regarding Supplemental Paid Leave Due to
COVID-19 (amended June 24, 2021); the Los Angeles County COVID-19
Worker Protection Ordinance (Title 8, Chapter 8.200 of the Los Angeles County
Code); Los Angeles County Employee Paid Leave for Expanded Vaccine Access
00317375.DOCX; 14 49

--- PAGE 51 of 277 ---

Ordinance (Title 8, Chapter 8.205 of the Los Angeles County Code); the Long
Beach COVID-19 Paid Supplemental Sick Leave Ordinance (Chapter 8.110 of the
Long Beach Municipal Code); the Oakland Paid Sick Leave Law (Section
5.92.030 of the Oakland Municipal and Planning Codes); the West Hollywood
Sick Pay Ordinance (Section 5.130.030 of the West Hollywood Municipal Code);
the Santa Monica Paid Sick Leave Ordinance (Chapter 4.62.025 of the Santa
Monica Municipal Code); the Tacoma Paid Sick Leave Ordinance (Title 18,
Chapter 18.10 of the Tacoma Municipal Code); the Arizona Earned Paid Sick
Time Law (A.R.S. section 23-371 et seq.); the New Jersey Paid Sick Leave Act
(N.J.S.A. 34:11D-1 et seq.); the Bloomfield Sick Leave for Private Employees
Ordinance (Chapter 463 of the Code of the Township of Bloomfield, New
Jersey); the East Orange Paid Sick Leave Ordinance (Chapter 140 of the Code of
the City of East Orange, New Jersey ); the Jersey City Paid Sick Time Law
(Chapter 4 of the Code of the City of Jersey City, New Jersey); the New
Brunswick Paid Sick Time and Paid Safe Time Leave Ordinance (Chapter 8.56 of
the Revised General Ordinances of the City of New Brunswick, New Jersey); the
Plainfield Sick Leave for Private Employees and City Employees Ordinance
(Chapter 8, Article 5 of the Municipal Code of the City of Plainfield, New
Jersey); the Irvington Paid Sick Time Ordinance (Chapter 277, Article I of the
Code of the Township of Irvington, New Jersey); the Montclair Paid Sick Leave
Ordinance (Chapter 132, Article I of the Code of the Township of Montclair, New
Jersey); the Morristown Paid Sick Leave Ordinance (Article XV, § 2-89, et seq. of
the Code of the Town of Morristown, New Jersey); the Newark Sick Leave for
Private Employees Ordinance (Chapter 16:18 of the Code of the City of Newark,
New Jersey); the Passaic Paid Sick Leave for Private Employees Ordinance
(Chapter 128, Article I of the Code of the City of Passaic, New Jersey); the
Paterson Sick Leave for Private Employees Ordinance (Chapter 412 of the
Paterson, New Jersey Code); the Trenton Paid Sick Leave Ordinance (Chapter
230 of the Code of the City of Trenton, New Jersey); the District of Columbia
Accrued Safe and Sick Leave Act (Section 32-531 of the Code of the District of
Columbia) (but only to the extent that an employee working within the District of
Columbia is granted at least three (3) days of paid sick leave per calendar year
pursuant to the provisions of Article XLVI above) and any other ordinance,
statute or law requiring paid sick leave that is hereafter enacted. It is understood
that the IATSE and the AMPTP shall memorialize any such waiver for any
newly-enacted law by letter agreement.”
00317375.DOCX; 14 50

--- PAGE 52 of 277 ---

19. Bereavement Leave
Add the following as a new Paragraph to the West Coast Studio Local Agreements and
Amendment Agreements effective August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later.
“In the event of the death of a ‘family member’* of a regularly scheduled employee, the
employee shall be allowed up to three (3) days of paid bereavement leave. For
employees employed on an hourly or daily basis, a day of bereavement leave pay shall be
equal to eight (8) hours' pay at the employee's straight time hourly rate. For weekly
employees (including ‘on call’ employees), a day of bereavement leave pay shall be equal
to one-fifth (1/5th) of the employee's weekly rate under the studio minimum wage scales
or one-sixth (1/6th) of the employee's weekly rate under the distant location minimum
wage scales.
“An employee who is absent from work due to bereavement leave will be reinstated to
the employee’s original position on the production upon return, provided that the position
continues to exist; however, for continuity purposes, a Producer is not required to
reinstate an employee on an episodic series until work on the current episode has been
completed. The Producer and the Union will discuss on a case-by-case basis, upon the
request of the Producer, issues related to the individual’s reinstatement.
“* ‘Family member’ means any of the following: (1) a biological, adopted or foster child,
stepchild, legal ward or a child to whom the employee stands in loco parentis; (2) a
biological, adoptive or foster parent, stepparent or legal guardian of the employee or the
employee's spouse or registered domestic partner or a person who stood in loco parentis
when the employee was a minor child; (3) a spouse; (4) a registered domestic partner; (5)
a grandparent; (6) a grandchild; or (7) a sibling.”
20. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Modify the “Non-Discrimination” provision in the Basic Agreement, West Coast Studio
Local Agreements and Amendment Agreements as follows:
“The parties agree to continue to comply with all applicable federal and state laws
relating to non-discriminatory employment practices. reaffirm their commitment to a
policy of non-discrimination in connection with the engagement of employees under this
Agreement on the basis of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), gender, gender
identity, gender expression, veteran status, medical condition (including genetic
characteristics), sexual orientation, age, national origin, disability as defined in the
Americans with Disabilities Act, marital status, Union membership or any other basis
prohibited by applicable law.
“Claims alleging a violation of this ‘Non-Discrimination’ provision are not
subject to arbitration, but are instead subject to non-binding mediation.”
00317375.DOCX; 14 51

--- PAGE 53 of 277 ---

21. Grievance Procedure
a. Modify the regular arbitration panel as follows:
Doug Collins Najeeb Khoury
Edna Francis Fred Kuperberg
Kathy Fragnoli Yuval Miller
Juan Carlos Gonzalez Kenneth Perea
Joel Grossman Michael Prihar
Frederick Horowitz Phillip Tamoush
John Kagel
b. Modify the expedited arbitration panel as follows:
Mark Burstein
Edna Francis
Kathy Fragnoli
Joel Grossman
Yuval Miller
c. List the arbitration panels in the body of the grievance and arbitration provisions.
d. Increase the limit for claimed damages under the expedited arbitration procedure
from $15,000 to $25,000.
e. In the event of an unreasonable delay in the grievance and arbitration procedure,
the Union may contact the President of the AMPTP, who will endeavor to
expedite a resolution of the matter.
22. Subcontracting
Modify Article XX(d) of the Basic Agreement as follows:
“(d) Subcontracting
“The parties recognize the existence of past subcontracting practices within the
multi-employer bargaining unit. The parties agree that the rights, limitations and
restrictions upon subcontracting practices set forth in the West Coast Studio Local
Agreements shall remain in effect.
“The Producer, as a matter of preservation of work for employees who have
historically and traditionally performed work under the crafts and classifications as set
forth in this Agreement, the Videotape Agreement or the West Coast Studio Local
Agreements, agrees that as to bargaining unit work of a type which has not heretofore
been subcontracted in the multi-employer bargaining unit, the Producer will subcontract
such bargaining unit work to any other person, corporation, joint venture or entity only:
(1) if the Producer first notifies the IATSE in writing of its intention to subcontract, and
(2) the direct labor costs of the person, corporation, joint venture or entity who will
00317375.DOCX; 14 52

--- PAGE 54 of 277 ---

perform such work under said subcontract are not less than the direct labor costs set forth
in this Agreement, the Videotape Agreement, the West Coast Studio Local Agreements
or other applicable collective bargaining agreements; or (3) if the Producer lacks the
requisite technology, facilities or equipment to perform the work. In addition, the
Producer agrees, effective November 1, 2024, to notify the IATSE in writing of its
intention to subcontract bargaining unit work of a type that has heretofore been
subcontracted in the multi-employer bargaining unit. Except with respect to such notice,
nothing in the preceding sentence shall alter the parties’ rights, limitations and
restrictions with respect to subcontracting under this Article XX(d).”
23. CSATF-Related Items
a. Safety Pass Training Stipend
Modify the Sideletter re: Stipend for Safety Pass Training to the Basic Agreement
as follows:
“This letter will serve to memorialize our agreement that, effective August 4,
2019, each employee in the bargaining unit covered by the Producer-I.A.T.S.E.
Basic Agreement who attends Safety Pass training classes required for his/her the
employee’s classification which are administered by Contract Services
Administration Trust Fund shall be paid a stipend of $20.00 for each hour he/she
the employee attends such classes outside his or her of employment. Effective
January 1, 2025, the applicable stipend shall increase to $25.00 for each hour the
employee attends such classes outside of employment.”
b. CSATF Contribution Rate Increase
Increase the general contribution rate to the Contract Services Administration
Trust Fund (“CSATF”) in the IATSE Basic Agreement by three cents ($0.03) per
hour (from sixty cents ($0.60) per hour to sixty-three cents ($0.63) per hour)
effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is
later] and by an additional three cents ($0.03) per hour (to sixty-six cents ($0.66)
per hour) effective [insert date that is August 2, 2026 or the first Sunday that is
two years following the business day that the AMPTP receives notification of
ratification, whichever is later].
00317375.DOCX; 14 53

--- PAGE 55 of 277 ---

Provide proportional increases to CSATF contribution rates as follows:
Film Labs: Increase CSATF contribution rates for laboratory employees from
one and seventy hundredths cents ($0.0170) per hour to one and seventy-nine
hundredths cents ($0.0179) per hour effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024
or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives
notice of ratification, whichever is later] and to one and eighty-seven hundredths
cents ($0.0187) per hour effective [insert date that is August 2, 2026 or the first
Sunday that is two years following the business day that the AMPTP receives
notification of ratification, whichever is later].
Local 871 (Production Office Coordinators, Assistant Production Office
Coordinators and Art Department Coordinators Agreement and Script
Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants Agreement): Increase CSATF
contribution rates for POCs, APOCs, and Art Department Coordinators from nine
and two hundredths cents ($0.0920) per hour to nine and sixty-six hundredths
cents ($0.0966) per hour effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024 or the first
Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later] and to ten and twelve hundredths cents ($0.1012)
per hour effective [insert date that is August 2, 2026 or the first Sunday that is
two years following the business day that the AMPTP receives notification of
ratification, whichever is later]. Increase CSATF contribution rates for Script
Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants from seven and eight hundredths
cents ($0.0708) per hour to seven and forty-three hundredths cents ($0.0743) per
hour effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is
later] and to seven and seventy-nine hundredths cents ($0.0779) per hour
effective [insert date that is August 2, 2026 or the first Sunday that is two years
following the business day that the AMPTP receives notification of ratification,
whichever is later].
Costume Houses: Increase CSATF contribution rates for costume house
employees from twenty-seven cents ($0.2700) per hour to twenty-eight and thirty-
five hundredths cents ($0.2835) per hour effective [insert date that is August 4,
2024 or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives
notice of ratification, whichever is later] and to twenty-nine and seventy
hundredths cents ($0.2970) per hour effective [insert date that is August 2, 2026
or the first Sunday that is two years following the business day that the AMPTP
receives notification of ratification, whichever is later].
TAG, Local 839 Agreement: To be addressed during negotiations with Local 839.
00317375.DOCX; 14 54

--- PAGE 56 of 277 ---

24. GenderNeutral Language
Modify the.Basic Agreementaridthe West Coast Studio Local Agreementsto use gender
heutfal language thatis grammatically correct, including changing
“Joiimeyman/Journeyrrien”to “Tourneyperson” and“Eoremair/Foremen” to
“Foreperson/Forepersons.” (Change “Men and Women" to “Person” in theLocal SO
(FirstAid)Agreement.)
FORTHE ALLIANCE OF MOTIONPICTURE AND TELEVISIONPRODUCERS, ON
BEHALF OF THE COMPANIES LISTED ON EXHIBIT “B” ATTACHED HERETO
Date:
Carol A. Lombardini, President
FORTHE INTERNATIONAL ALLIANCE OF THEATRICAL STAGE EMPLOYEES
AND MOVING PICTURE TECHNICIANS, ARTISTS AND ALLIED CRAFTS OFTHE
UNITED STATES AND CANADA
Date:
MatthewD. Loeb. InternationalPresident
00317375.DOCX; 14 55

--- PAGE 57 of 277 ---

EXHIBIT “A”
The West Coast Studio Locals of the IATSE are named as follows:
Affiliated Property Craftspersons Local 44
Motion Picture Studio Grips Local 80
International Cinematographers Guild Local 600
I.A.T.S.E. Production Sound Technicians, Television Engineers, Local 695
Video Assist Technicians and Studio Projectionists
Motion Picture Editors Guild Local 700
Motion Picture Costumers Local 705
Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists Local 706
Studio Electrical Lighting Technicians Local 728
Motion Picture Set Painters and Sign Writers Local 729
Art Directors Guild Local 800
The Animation Guild Local 839
Script Supervisors/Continuity, Coordinators, Accountants &
Allied Production Specialists Guild Local 871
Motion Picture Studio Teachers and Welfare Workers Local 884
Costume Designers Guild Local 892
00317375.DOCX; 14 56

--- PAGE 58 of 277 ---

EXHIBIT “B”
Companies Represented by the AMPTP
in the 2024 IATSE Negotiations
12:05 AM Productions, LLC Brightstar TFCF Productions LLC
1440 Productions LLC Broken Foot Production, Inc.
20th Century Studios, Inc. Bronson Avenue LLC
300 Pictures, Inc. BTW Productions, Inc.
40 North Productions, LLC Bumper Productions LLC
4423 Productions LLC
50/50 Studio Productions, LLC Camdrew Productions LLC
7 Friends Pictures Inc. Canada Premiere Pictures Inc.
Capital Concerts, Inc.
A Little Bit Fuzzy Productions, LLC Carnival Row Productions, LLC
ABC Signature, LLC Cartoon Network Studios, Inc.
ABC Studios New York, LLC Cast & Crew Production Services, LLC
Abominable Pictures Inc. Castle Rock Pictures, Inc.
Academy Lighting Consultants, Inc CBB Productions
Academy of Motion Picture Arts and CBS Studios Inc.
Sciences Century Productions LLC
Adobe Pictures, Inc. Charlestown Productions LLC
AE Ops, LLC Chime Productions, LLC
Alameda Productions, LLC ChubbCo FilmCo
Alive and Kicking, Inc. Classic Films Inc.
Ambient Sounds Productions LLC Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc.
American Costume Corp. Corrado Mooncoin Holdings LLC
AOH Special, Inc. Countess Productions LLC
Apple Studios LLC Country Music Association, Inc.
Apple Studios Louisiana LLC CPT Holdings, Inc.
Artcraft Productions Inc. Cranetown Media LLC
Ascension Films Inc. Create Harmony Media Inc.
Aspect Ratio, Inc. Crews Unlimited II Inc
Atelier Eidos Inc. dba Bill Hargate Crown City Pictures Inc.
Costumes Culture Crew Productions, Inc.
Atlantic Pictures, LLC Cush Light LLC
Backlight Productions LLC Dae Light Media, LLC
Base Light Productions LLC Delta Blues Productions LLC
B-Cam Productions LLC Digital 49 Productions, Inc.
Beachwood Services, Inc. DreamWorks Animation Television Post-
Big Indie Pictures, Inc. Production, LLC
Big Ticket Television Inc. DreamWorks Post-Production L.L.C.
Black Label Media, LLC Dutch Boy Productions, LLC
Bonanza Productions Inc. DW Dramatic Television L.L.C.
Breakout Kings Productions LLC DW SKG TV L.L.C.
00317375.DOCX; 14 57

--- PAGE 59 of 277 ---

DW Studios Productions L.L.C. Kapital Productions, LLC
Dyminium Productions, LLC Ken Ehrlich Productions, Inc.
Kenwood TV Productions, Inc.
Electric Entertainment, Inc. Keystone TV Productions LLC
EPSG Management Services Kiki Tree Pictures Inc.
Extreme Reach Productions Payroll, Inc.
Eye Productions Inc. Legendary Features Productions US, LLC
Legendary Pictures Productions LLC
Favian Wigs Inc. Legendary Television Animation, LLC
Film 49 Productions, Inc. Lennox House Pictures Inc.
Finnmax, LLC LGTV Productions, Inc.
Focus Features Productions LLC Lightsavior Productions LLC
Fox Alternative Entertainment, LLC Lime Grove Productions, LLC
Fox Studio Lot, LLC Linear Productions LLC
Frank & Bob Films II, LLC Lions Gate Productions, LLC
Frankie and Jude Productions, LLC Liquid Music, Inc.
FRB Productions, Inc. Louisiana Premiere Productions LLC
FTP Productions, LLC Lucid Studios Inc.
Gemini 3 Productions, Inc. Madison Productions, Inc.
Goldcrest Features, Inc. Main Gate Productions LLC
Goodnight Industries, Inc. dba Goodnight Main Lot Productions LLC
and Company Marilyn J. Madsen
Grass Skirt Digital Productions, Inc. Marvel Film Productions LLC
Green Set Inc. Marvel Picture Works LLC
GWave Productions, LLC Media Services Processing, LLC
Mesquite Productions, Inc.
Hazardous Productions, LLC Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures Inc.
Honest Scholar Productions LLC MGM Television Entertainment Inc.
Hop, Skip & Jump Productions, Inc. Milk Street Productions, LLC
Horizon Scripted Television Inc. Minassian Productions Inc.
Hostage Productions, Inc. Minim Louisiana Productions, LLC
Hydronaut Productions, LLC Minim Productions, Inc.
Mountainair Films Inc.
Inclined Productions, Inc. MRZ Sound Inc dba Martell Sound
Island Studios, LLC fka Island Film Studios, Mutiny Pictures Inc.
LLC
It's Possible Productions, LLC Nametag Production Inc.
Netflix Animation, LLC
Jax Media, LLC Netflix Productions, LLC
Jay Squared Productions LLC Netflix Series Animation, LLC
Netflix Studios, LLC
JC Backings Corporation New Line Productions, Inc.
JMX, LLC New Regency Productions, Inc.
Next Step Productions LLC
00317375.DOCX; 14 58

--- PAGE 60 of 277 ---

Nila Inc. Remote Broadcasting, Inc.
Ninjutsu Pictures, Inc. Renato Basile Entertainment, Inc.
NM Talent Inc. Reunion 2017 LLC
NS Pictures, Inc. River Road Entertainment Productions, LLC
Riverboat Productions, LLC
Old School Productions LLC Rocart Inc.
Olive Avenue Productions LLC Rose City Pictures, Inc.
Olive Productions, LLC Rozar Pictures, LLC
On The Brink Productions, Inc. Ruff Draft Productions, LLC
One Eighty Productions LLC
Onyx Collective Productions, Inc. S&K Pictures, Inc.
Open 4 Business Productions LLC Salt Spring Media, Inc.
Orange Cone Productions LLC Salty Pictures, Inc.
Orchard Road Productions, LLC Scenic Express, Inc.
Over the Pond Productions, Inc. Scope Productions, LLC
Screen Gems Productions, Inc.
Pace Pictures LLC Serendipity Productions, Inc.
Pacific 2.1 Entertainment Group, Inc. Shovel Buddies, LLC
Palladin Productions LLC Signature Post Services LLC
Paradise Productions, Inc. Singular Productions LLC
Parallax TV Productions LLC Skycrew Sports Productions, LLC
Paramount Overseas Productions, Inc. Skydance Animation, LLC
Paramount Pictures Corporation Skydance Features, LLC
Paramount Worldwide Productions, Inc. Skydance Pictures, LLC
Pat & Mike Productions, Inc. SLO Productions Inc.
Patch Bay Productions LLC Smallville Studios Inc.
Picrow Inc dba Pictures in a Row Sony Pictures Studios, Inc.
Picrow Streaming Inc. Sound One, Inc
Pitch Black Development, LLC South Circle Productions LLC
PP21 Productions LLC South Lake Audio Services, LLC
Produced Bayou, Inc. South Rock Productions LLC
Production Partners, Inc. Spectral Motion, Inc.
Program Productions, Inc. Spellman Desk Company, Inc
Proximity Productions LLC Stage 6 Films, Inc.
Purple Tally Productions, Inc. Stage Call Inc.
Stalwart Productions LLC
Quest Productions, Inc. Stash Productions Inc.
Stinger Productions LLC
R/H Factor, Inc. Stitch Costume LLC
Radford Graphics, LLC Story Ink, Ltd.
Random Pictures Inc. Storybuilders, LLC
Raquel Productions Inc. Storyteller Production Co., LLC dba Amblin
Rat Pac Controls Services Inc. Partners
Red Zone Pictures, Inc. Stu Segall Productions, Inc.
Redemption Pictures, Inc. Studio Productions, Inc.
00317375.DOCX; 14 59

--- PAGE 61 of 277 ---

Studios Competition Productions, LLC
WAG Pictures Inc.
Take Note, Inc Walden Media Productions LLC
The Dawgs Sound Design, Inc. Walk by Faith Film, LLC
The Lippin Group Inc Walt Disney Pictures
The Power LLC Warner Bros. Animation Inc.
Theatrical Resources, LLC Warner Bros. Advanced Media Services Inc.
Theoretical Pictures, Inc. (except IATSE Local 700/formerly
Topanga Productions, Inc. Local 683)
Tough House Productions Warner Bros. Pictures
TPS Production Services, LLC Warner Bros. Studio Operations
Trackdown Productions, Inc. Warner Bros. Television
Triple Horse Studios LLC Warner Specialty Productions Inc.
Triple Point Productions LLC Warner Specialty Video Productions Inc.
Turner Films, Inc. Waveform Productions LLC
TVM Productions, Inc. Westwind Studios, LLC
Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation wiip Productions, LLC
dba 20th Television Wild Canary Animation, Inc.
Woodridge Productions, Inc.
Uncle Easy Productions LLC
Universal Animation Studios LLC XOF Studios, LLC
Universal City Studios LLC
Universal Content Productions LLC YNFS Productions LLC
Upside Down Productions Inc.
Valkyrie of Iron, LLC.
Vertical Hold Productions LLC
Volt Lites, Inc.
00317375.DOCX; 14 60

--- PAGE 62 of 277 ---

EXHIBIT “C”
2024 IATSE NEGOTIATIONS
SPECIAL CONDITIONS SIDELETTERS
For motion pictures, new seasons of series and new mini-series for which principal photography commences on or
after [insert date that is August 4, 2024 or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives
notice of ratification, whichever is later].
These provisions apply in the geographical area where currently applicable under the West Coast Studio Local
Agreements and except when better conditions apply.
The percentage rate reductions shall not apply when current rates under the applicable sideletter are higher than
the proposed percentage reduction.
DESCRIPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
HALF-HOUR PILOT, ONE-HOUR PILOT, ONE-HOUR EPISODIC SERIES – NETWORK TV, PAY TV, HB SVOD,
HB AVOD AND HB FAST CHANNEL
1. Geographic Scope Network and Pay TV: Produced in Los Angeles
HB SVOD, HB AVOD, HB FAST Channel: Regardless of Location
2. Wage Rates Pilots and Season 1: 3% reduction
Season 2: 3% reduction
Seasons 3+: WCSL Agreement rates
3. Overtime • 1.5x after 8 hours worked, except as otherwise provided in WCSL
Agreement
• 2x after 12 hours worked
• 3x after 15 hours elapsed
4. Holidays Pilots and Season 1: no unworked holiday pay
Season 2: 50% unworked holiday pay
Seasons 3+: 100% unworked holiday pay
5. Vacation Pilots and Season 1: no vacation pay
Season 2: 50% vacation pay
Seasons 3+: 100% vacation pay
6. Transportation No transportation allowance ($0.30/mile) for transportation in Los
Allowance Angeles County within 10-mile radius
7. Interchange Per Videotape Agreement concept
8. Other terms and Network and Pay TV: Per Basic and WCSL Agreements
conditions HB SVOD, HB AVOD, HB FAST Channel: Per New Media Sideletter
00317375.DOCX; 14 61

--- PAGE 63 of 277 ---

DESCRIPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
SINGLE CAMERA HALF-HOUR PRIME TIME DRAMATIC SERIES – NETWORK TV, PAY TV, HB SVOD, HB
AVOD AND HB FAST CHANNEL
1. Geographic Scope Network and Pay TV: Produced in Los Angeles
HB SVOD, HB AVOD, HB FAST Channel: Regardless of Location
2. Wage Rates Season 1: 3% reduction
Season 2: 3% reduction
Seasons 3+: WCSL Agreement rates
3. Overtime • 1.5x after 8 hours worked, except as otherwise provided in WCSL
Agreement
• 2x after 12 hours worked
• 3x after 15 hours elapsed
4. Holidays Season 1: no unworked holiday pay
Season 2: 50% unworked holiday pay
Seasons 3+: 100% unworked holiday pay
5. Vacation Season 1: no vacation pay
Season 2: 50% vacation pay
Seasons 3+: 100% vacation pay
6. Transportation No transportation allowance ($0.30/mile) for transportation in Los
Allowance Angeles County within 10-mile radius
7. Interchange Per Videotape Agreement concept
8. Other terms and Network and Pay TV: Per Basic and WCSL Agreements
conditions HB SVOD, HB AVOD, HB FAST Channel: Per New Media Sideletter
00317375.DOCX; 14 62

--- PAGE 64 of 277 ---

DESCRIPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
MULTI-CAMERA HALF-HOUR PILOTS AND EPISODIC SERIES – NETWORK TV, PAY TV, HB SVOD, HB
AVOD AND HB FAST CHANNEL
1. Geographic Scope Network and Pay TV: Produced in Los Angeles
HB SVOD, HB AVOD, HB FAST Channel: Regardless of Location
2. Wage Rates Pilots and Seasons 1+: WCSL Agreement rates
3. Overtime Network and Pay TV:
• As provided in Videotape Agreement
• 3x after 15 hours elapsed
HB SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST:
• 1.5x after 8 hours worked, except as otherwise provided in the
WCSL Agreements
• 2x after 12 hours worked
• 3x after 15 hours elapsed
4. Holidays Pilots and Seasons 1+: 100% unworked holiday pay
5. Vacation Pilots and Seasons 1+: 100% vacation pay
6. Transportation Transportation allowance applies
Allowance
7. Interchange Per Videotape Agreement concept
8. Other terms and Network and Pay TV: Per Videotape Agreement
conditions HB SVOD, HB AVOD, HB FAST Channel: Per New Media Sideletter
00317375.DOCX; 14 63

--- PAGE 65 of 277 ---

DESCRIPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
ALL PROGRAMS AND SERIES (INCLUDING MINI-SERIES) MADE FOR BASIC CABLE
1. Geographic Scope Regardless of location (not applicable to Local 600 Amendment
Agreement)
2. Wage Rates Long-form, Pilot and Season 1: Rates discounted by no more than
12.5%
Season 2: 3% reduction
Season 3: 3% reduction
Seasons 4+: WCSL Agreement rates
3. Overtime • 1.5x after 8 hours worked, except as otherwise provided in WCSL
Agreement
• 2x after 12 hours worked
• 3x after 15 hours elapsed
4. Holidays Long-form, Pilot and Season 1: no unworked holiday pay
Season 2: 50% unworked holiday pay
Seasons 3+: 100% unworked holiday pay
5. Vacation Long-form, Pilot and Season 1: no vacation pay
Season 2: 50% vacation pay
Seasons 3+: 100% vacation pay
6. Transportation No transportation allowance ($0.30/mile) for transportation in Los
Allowance Angeles County within 10-mile radius
7. Interchange Long-form, Pilot & Season 1: Per Long-Form Sideletter
Season 2+: Per Videotape Agreement concept
8. Other terms and Per Basic Agreement and WCSL Agreements
conditions
DESCRIPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
MINI-SERIES – NETWORK TV, PAY TV, HB SVOD, HB AVOD, AND HB FAST CHANNEL
1. Geographic Scope Network and Pay TV: Produced in Los Angeles
HB SVOD, HB AVOD, HB FAST Channel: Regardless of Location
2. Wage Rates 3% reduction
3. Overtime • 1.5x after 8 hours worked, except as otherwise provided in WCSL
Agreement
• 2x after 12 hours worked
• 3x after 15 hours elapsed
4. Holidays No unworked holiday pay
5. Vacation No vacation pay
6. Transportation No transportation allowance ($0.30/mile) for transportation in Los
Allowance Angeles County within 10-mile radius
7. Interchange Per Videotape Agreement concept
8. Other terms and Network and Pay TV: Per Basic and WCSL Agreements
conditions HB SVOD, HB AVOD, HB FAST Channel: Per New Media Sideletter
00317375.DOCX; 14 64

--- PAGE 66 of 277 ---

DESCRIPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
LONG-FORM, MOW, 2-HOUR PILOTS FOR WHICH THERE IS NO SERIES COMMITMENT – NETWORK TV,
PAY TV, HB SVOD, HB AVOD AND HB FAST CHANNEL
1. Geographic Scope Network and Pay TV: Produced in Los Angeles
HB SVOD, HB AVOD, HB FAST Channel: Regardless of Location
2. Wage Rates Network, Pay TV and One-Time HB SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST
Channel other than ≥ 96 minutes budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222^
• Rates reduced by no more than 10%
One-Time HB SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST Channel ≥ 96 minutes
budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222^
• WCSL Agreement rates
3. Overtime • 1.5x after 8 hours worked, except as otherwise provided in WCSL
Agreement
• 2x after 12 hours worked
• 3x after 15 hours elapsed
4. Holidays Network, Pay TV and One-Time HB SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST
Channel other than ≥ 96 minutes budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222^
• No unworked holiday pay
One-Time HB SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST Channel ≥ 96 minutes
budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222^
• 100% unworked holiday pay
5. Vacation Network, Pay TV and One-Time HB SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST
Channel other than ≥ 96 minutes budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222^
• No vacation pay
One-Time HB SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST Channel ≥ 96 minutes
budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222^
• 100% vacation pay
6. Transportation Network, Pay TV and One-Time HB SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST
Allowance Channel other than ≥ 96 minutes budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222^
• No transportation allowance ($0.30/mile) for transportation in
Los Angeles County within 10-mile radius
One-Time HB SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST Channel ≥ 96 minutes
budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222^
• Per WCSL Agreements
7. Interchange Network, Pay TV and One-Time HB SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST
Channel other than ≥ 96 minutes budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222^
• Per Long-Form Sideletter
One-Time HB SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST Channel ≥ 96 minutes
budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222^
• Per WCSL Agreements
8. Other terms and Network and Pay TV: Per Basic and WCSL Agreements
conditions HB SVOD, HB AVOD, HB FAST Channel: Per New Media Sideletter
^Budget threshold subject to general wage increase in year 1 of the Agreement only.
00317375.DOCX; 14 65

--- PAGE 67 of 277 ---

DESCRIPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
LOW BUDGET SVOD, MID-BUDGET SVOD, LOW BUDGET AVOD, MID-BUDGET AVOD, LOW BUDGET
FAST CHANNEL, MID-BUDGET FAST CHANNEL
1. Geographic Scope Regardless of location
2. Wage Rates Rates reduced by no more than 12.5%
3. Overtime • 1.5x after 8 hours worked, except as otherwise provided in WCSL
Agreement
• 2x after 12 hours worked
• 3x after 15 hours elapsed
4. Holidays No unworked holiday pay
5. Vacation No vacation pay
6. Transportation No transportation allowance ($0.30/mile) for transportation in Los
Allowance Angeles County within 10-mile radius
7. Interchange Per Videotape Agreement concept
8. Other terms and Per New Media Sideletter
conditions
DESCRIPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
LOCAL 700 – PILOTS – HB SVOD, HB AVOD AND HB FAST CHANNEL
1. Wage Rates High Budget SVOD, High Budget AVOD and High Budget FAST
Channel other than Multi-Camera Half-Hour Pilots regardless of
location
• Rates reduced by 3%
Multi-Camera Half-Hour High Budget SVOD, High Budget AVOD and
High Budget FAST Channel Pilots regardless of location
• Local 700 Agreement or Amendment Agreement rates, as
applicable
2. Overtime High Budget SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST Channel - work solely on
premises of a studio:
• 1.5x after 8 hours worked, except as otherwise provided in Local
700 Agreement or Amendment Agreement, as applicable
• 2x after 12 elapsed
• 3x after 15 elapsed
00317375.DOCX; 14 66

--- PAGE 68 of 277 ---

DESCRIPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
LOCAL 700 – SERIES (OTHER THAN MINI-SERIES) – HB SVOD, HB AVOD AND HB FAST CHANNEL
1. Wage Rates High Budget SVOD, High Budget AVOD and High Budget FAST
Channel other than Multi-Camera Half-Hour Episodic Series
regardless of location
• Seasons 1-2: rates reduced by 3%
• Season 3+: Local 700 Agreement or Amendment Agreement
rates, as applicable
Multi-Camera Half-Hour High Budget SVOD, High Budget AVOD and
High Budget FAST Channel Episodic Series regardless of location
• Season 1+: Local 700 Agreement or Amendment Agreement
rates, as applicable
2. Overtime High Budget SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST Channel - work solely on
premises of a studio:
• 1.5x after 8 hours worked, except as otherwise provided in Local
700 Agreement or Amendment Agreement, as applicable
• 2x after 12 elapsed
• 3x after 15 elapsed
DESCRIPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
LOCAL 700 – MINI-SERIES – HB SVOD, HB AVOD AND HB FAST CHANNEL
1. Wage Rates All High Budget SVOD, High Budget AVOD and High Budget FAST
Channel regardless of location
Rates reduced by 3%
2. Overtime High Budget SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST Channel - work solely on
premises of a studio:
• 1.5x after 8 hours worked, except as otherwise provided in Local
700 Agreement or Amendment Agreement, as applicable
• 2x after 12 elapsed
• 3x after 15 elapsed
00317375.DOCX; 14 67

--- PAGE 69 of 277 ---

DESCRIPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
LOCAL 700 – ONE-TIME PROGRAMS – HB SVOD, HB AVOD AND HB FAST CHANNEL
1. Wage Rates High Budget SVOD, High Budget AVOD and High Budget FAST
Channel regardless of location
• Made for ≥ 20M subscribers
66-84 minutes
o
 Budgeted at ≥ $4.0M: rates reduced by 3%
 Budgeted at ≥ $3.0M but < $4.0M: rates reduced by no
more than 10%
85-95 minutes
o
 Budgeted at ≥ $4.0M: rates reduced by 3%
 Budgeted at ≥ $3.0M but < $4.0M: rates reduced by no
more than 10%
≥ 96 minutes
o
 Budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222*: Local 700 Agreement or
Amendment Agreement rates, as applicable
 Budgeted at ≥ $4.5M (plus $2.25M for each additional 35
minutes or portion thereof) but < $34,778,222*: rates
reduced by 3%
 Budgeted at ≥ $3.0M but < $4.5M (plus $2.25M for each
additional 35 minutes or portion thereof): rates reduced by
no more than 10%
• Made for < 20M subscribers
66-84 minutes: rates reduced by no more than 10%
o
≥ 85 minutes
o
 Other than programs budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222*: rates
reduced by no more than 10%
 Budgeted at ≥ $34,778,222*: Local 700 Agreement or
Amendment Agreement rates, as applicable
2. Overtime High Budget SVOD, HB AVOD and HB FAST Channel - work solely on
premises of a studio:
• 1.5x after 8 hours worked, except as otherwise provided in Local
700 Agreement or Amendment Agreement, as applicable
• 2x after 12 elapsed
• 3x after 15 elapsed
*Budget threshold subject to general wage increase in year 1 of the Agreement only.
00317375.DOCX; 14 68

--- PAGE 70 of 277 ---

DESCRIPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
LOCAL 700 – LOW BUDGET AND MID-BUDGET SVOD; LOW BUDGET AND MID-BUDGET AVOD; AND
LOW BUDGET AND MID-BUDGET FAST CHANNEL
1. Wage Rates All Low Budget and Mid-Budget SVOD, Low Budget and Mid-Budget
AVOD and Low Budget and Mid-Budget FAST Channel regardless of
location
• Rates reduced by no more than 12.5%
2. Holidays No unworked holiday pay
Vacation No vacation pay
4. Overtime All Low Budget and Mid-Budget SVOD, Low Budget and Mid-Budget
AVOD and Low Budget and Mid-Budget FAST Channel regardless of
location
• 1.5x after 8 hours worked, except as otherwise provided in
Local 700 Agreement or Amendment Agreement, as
applicable
• 2x after 12 hours worked
• 3x after 15 hours elapsed
5. Staffing and Interchange Per Videotape Agreement concept
00317375.DOCX; 14 69

--- PAGE 71 of 277 ---

PRODUCER - I.A.T.S.E. AND M.P.T.A.A.C.
BASIC AGREEMENT OF 2021
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE PAGE NO.
I. Term of Agreement .......................................................... 6
II. Union Security ................................................................... 6
III. Scope of Agreement .......................................................... 7
IV. Wage Scales, Hours of Employment and Working
Conditions ................................................................ 8
V. Bargaining Agency ............................................................ 9
VI. Insignia of IATSE ........................................................... 10
VII. Notices ............................................................................. 10
VIII. Foremen and Supervisory Employees ............................ 10
IX. Preference of Employment .............................................. 11
X. Exculpatory Clause ......................................................... 15
XI. Short Title ........................................................................ 16
XII. Health Plan ...................................................................... 16
XIII. Pension Plan .................................................................... 22
XIIIA. Motion Picture Industry Individual Account Plan .......... 26
XIIIB. 401(k) Plan Feasibility Study .......................................... 27
XIIIC. Study and Analysis of the Structure of the Motion
Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans ………28
XIV. Motion Picture Industry Health Plan - Retired
Employees Fund ..................................................... 28
XV. Producer Retirement Plans .............................................. 31
XVI. Report of Locations and Production Schedules .............. 32
XVIA. Project Information Sheet ............................................... 32
XVII. Meaning of Term "Motion Picture" ................................ 33
XVIII. Pre '60 Theatrical Pictures; Pay Television .................... 34
XIX. Post '60 Theatrical Motion Pictures ................................ 34
XX. Policy, Applicability of Agreement and Subcontracting 56
XXI. Charitable Contributions ................................................. 58
XXII. Annual Meetings ............................................................. 58
XXIII. Documentaries, Industrial and Educational .................... 59
XXIV. Non-Discrimination ......................................................... 59
XXV. Contract Services Administration Trust Fund ................ 59
XXVA. IATSE Training Trust Fund ............................................ 61
XXVI. Implementation of Work Training and Apprenticeship
Programs ................................................................. 61
XXVII. Rental Facilities Notice ................................................... 62
XXVIII. Supplemental Markets ..................................................... 62
i

--- PAGE 72 of 277 ---

TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)
ARTICLE PAGE NO.
XXVIIIA. Special Residual Formula for Theatrical Motion
Pictures Licensed to Free Television, Supplemental
Markets and/or New Media for which a Minimum
Guarantee or Non-Returnable Advance
is Payable ................................................................ 85
XXIX. Studio Zone, Secondary Studio Zone,
New York Thirty (30) Mile Zone and
Production Centers ................................................. 86
XXX. Sales Agreements ............................................................ 90
XXXI. Safety ............................................................................... 90
XXXIA. Training ........................................................................... 92
XXXII. Grievance and Arbitration Procedure ............................. 93
XXXIII. Employee Assistance Program for Drug and Alcohol
Abuse .................................................................... 100
XXXIV. Loan-outs ....................................................................... 100
XXXV. Employer in Default ...................................................... 102
XXXVI. Principle of Assistance .................................................. 102
XXXVII. Designating Responsible Employer .............................. 102
XXXVIII. Parking and Transportation ........................................... 102
XXXIX. Cancellation of Calls/Fractional Payroll Weeks
Committee ............................................................ 102
XL. Payroll Companies ........................................................ 103
XLI. Child Care Centers ........................................................ 103
XLII. Change of Name by Producer ..................................... . 103
XLIII. Low Budget Features .................................................... 103
XLIV. Guarantees of Employment ........................................... 103
XLV. Payroll Deposit .............................................................. 103
XLVI. Paid Sick Leave ............................................................. 105
XLVII. Waiver of New York City Earned Safe and Sick Time
Act and Similar Laws ........................................... 107
XLVIII Diversity, Equity and Inclusion .................................... 109
EXHIBIT "A" - Payroll Companies’ Agreement ........................... 116
EXHIBIT "B" - Project Information Sheet .................................... 124
Sideletters:
- Special Conditions for One-Half Hour and One-Hour Pilots
and One-Hour Episodic Television Series ................... 125
- Special Conditions for Long-Form Television Motion
Pictures (Including Movies-of-the-Week, Mini-Series and
Two (2) Hour Pilots for Which No Commitment for a
ii

--- PAGE 73 of 277 ---

TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)
Sideletters (cont'd): PAGE NO.
Series Exists at the Time of the Pilot Order) ................ 127
- Made-For-Home Video Productions ............................. 139
- Productions Made for Basic Cable................................ 140
- Funding of Increased Benefits for Defined
Benefit Plan .......................................................... 141
- Productions Made for New Media ................................ 143
- Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted Via New
Media ................................................................... 193
- Virtual MVPD Services ................................................ 199
- Over-The-Top (“OTT”) Service of Pay Television
Service .................................................................. 201
- Diversity and Inclusion ................................................. 202
- Stipend for Safety Pass Training ................................... 203
EXHIBIT "Z" - Studio Zone and Secondary Studio Zone Map ..... 204
iii

--- PAGE 74 of 277 ---

PRODUCER - I.A.T.S.E. AND M.P.T.A.A.C.
BASIC AGREEMENT OF 2021
__________________________________________________
THIS AGREEMENT, executed in the City of Los Angeles,
California, as of the 1st day of August, 2021, effective as of such date by
and between:
7 Friends Pictures Inc. Broken Foot Productions, Inc.
12:05 AM Productions, LLC Bronson Avenue LLC
20th Century Studios, Inc.
40 North Productions, LLC Calabasas Camera
300 Pictures, Inc. Camdrew Productions LLC
1440 Productions LLC Canada Premiere Pictures Inc.
4423 Productions LLC Capital Concerts, Inc.
50/50 Productions, LLC Carnival Row Productions, LLC
fka Legendary Television 1, LLC
ABC Signature, LLC fka Cartoon Network Studios, Inc.
Touchstone Television Productions, Cast & Crew Production Payroll, LLC
LLC Castle Rock Pictures, Inc.
ABC Studios New York, LLC CBB Productions
Abominable Pictures, Inc. CBS Studios Inc.
Academy Lighting Consultants, Inc. Charlestown Productions LLC
Adobe Pictures, Inc. Chime Productions, LLC
Alameda Productions, LLC dba ChubbCo FilmCo
Legendary Alameda Productions, City Row Productions, Inc.
LLC Classic Films Inc.
Alcon Entertainment, LLC Clean Setz, LLC
Alive and Kicking, Inc. Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc.
Ambient Sounds Productions LLC Consolidated Scenic Services, Inc.
American Film Institute (The) Corporate Management Solutions,
Apple Studios LLC Inc. dba CMS Productions
Apple Studios Louisiana LLC CorradoMooncoin Holdings Inc.
Artcraft Productions Inc. Country Music Association, Inc.
Ascension Films Inc. CPT Holdings, Inc.
Atelier Eidos, Inc. dba Bill Hargate Cranetown Media, LLC
Costumes Create Harmony Music, Inc.
Aurelian Productions, LLC Creative Diversity, Inc.
Crown City Pictures Inc.
B-Cam Productions LLC Cryptic Industries, LLC
Backlight Productions LLC Cush Light, LLC
Barn Burner Entertainment, Inc. CS West Productions, Inc.
Base Light Productions LLC
Beachwood Services, Inc. Dae Light Media, LLC
Big Beach, LLC Delta Blues Productions LLC
Big Indie Pictures, Inc. Derouchey Foam Works Inc.
Big Ticket Television Inc. Digital 49 Productions, Inc.
Bigger Boat, Inc. Done & Dusted Electronic, Inc.
Bob Industries, LLC Done & Dusted Events, Inc.
Bonanza Productions Inc. Done & Dusted Productions, Inc.
Bottom Dollar Productions, Inc. DreamWorks Animation
Breakout Kings Productions LLC Television Post-Production LLC
Brightstar Fox Productions LLC DreamWorks Post-Production LLC
- 1 -

--- PAGE 75 of 277 ---

Dunnfilms, Inc. Kapital Productions, LLC
Dutch Boy Productions, LLC Ken Ehrlich Productions, Inc.
DW Dramatic Television LLC Kenwood TV Productions, Inc.
DW SKG TV LLC Keystone TV Productions LLC
DW Studios Productions LLC Kiki Tree Pictures Inc.
Dyminium Productions, LLC
LD Entertainment Company LLC
Electric Entertainment, Inc. Legendary Features Productions US,
EPSG Management Services LLC
Eventvision, Inc. Legendary Pictures Productions, LLC
Eye Animation Productions Inc. Lennox House Pictures Inc.
Eye Productions Inc. Leverage 2.0 Television
Productions, Inc.
F73 Awards, Inc. LGTV Productions, Inc.
Favian Wigs, Inc. Linear Productions LLC
Film 49 Productions, Inc. Lions Gate Productions, LLC
FilmNation Features, LLC Lippin Group (The)
Focus Features Productions LLC Liquid Music, Inc.
Fox Alternative Entertainment, LLC LiteGear, Inc.
Fox Studio Lot, LLC Louisiana Premiere Productions LLC
Frank & Bob Films II, LLC Love It NY Productions, Inc.
FRB Productions, Inc.
FTP Productions, LLC Makeready, LLC
Full Frontal, LLC Main Gate Productions LLC
Main Lot Productions LLC
Gaumont Animation Studio LLC Marilyn J. Madsen
Gemini 3 Productions, Inc. Marvel Film Productions LLC
Gimme Dat Money, LLC Marvel Picture Works LLC
Goldcrest Features, Inc. Media Res Productions, LLC
Goodnight Industries, Inc. Media Services Processing, LLC
Grass Skirt Digital Productions, Inc. Mesquite Productions, Inc.
Green Set, Inc. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures, Inc.
Gunpowder Style LLC MGM Television Entertainment, Inc.
GVF Productions, Inc. Midway Island Entertainment, Inc.
GWave Productions, LLC Mighty Pen, LLC
Milk Street Productions, LLC
Hazardous Productions, LLC Minassian Productions Inc.
HITC Productions LLC Minim Louisiana Productions, Inc.
Honors Productions, Inc. Minim Productions, Inc.
Hop, Skip & Jump Productions, Inc. Moonfall Productions, Inc.
Horizon Scripted Television Inc. Mountainair Films Inc.
Hostage Productions, Inc. Moxie Pictures Inc.
HT Project, Inc. MRC II Holdings, LP
MRC Live & Alternative, LLC fka
I Like Pie, Inc. dick clark productions, llc
Independent Studio Services, LLC MRZ Sound, Inc. dba Martell Sound
Indieproduction, LLC Mutiny Pictures Inc.
Irony West Corp.
Island Film Studios, LLC Nametag Production Inc.
It's Possible Productions, LLC Netflix Animation, LLC
Netflix Productions, LLC
Jax Media, LLC Netflix Studios, LLC
Jay Squared Productions LLC New Line Productions, Inc.
JC Backings Corporation New Regency Productions, Inc.
JMX, LLC Next Step Productions, LLC
- 2 -

--- PAGE 76 of 277 ---

Nila Inc.
Ninjutsu Pictures, Inc. S&K Pictures, Inc.
NM Talent, Inc. Salt Spring Media, Inc.
NS Pictures, Inc. Salty Pictures, Inc.
Scenic Express, Inc.
Olive Avenue Productions LLC Scope Productions, LLC
Olive Productions, LLC Screen Gems Productions, Inc.
Omega Cinema Props Inc. SCV Graphic Production, Inc.
On The Brink Productions, Inc. Seeker Productions Inc.
One Eighty Productions LLC Serendipity Productions, Inc.
Open 4 Business Productions LLC Serial Pictures LLC
Orange Cone Productions LLC Singular Productions LLC
Orchard Road Productions, LLC Skydance Pictures, LLC
Over the Pond Productions Inc. SLO Productions Inc.
Smallville Studios Inc.
Pacific 2.1 Entertainment Group, Inc. Sneak Preview Productions, Inc.
Paige Productions, Inc. Sony Pictures Studios, Inc.
Palladin Productions LLC South Circle Productions LLC
Paradise Productions, Inc. South Lake Audio Services, LLC
Parallax TV Productions LLC South Rock Productions LLC
Paramount Pictures Corporation Spellman Desk Co., Inc.
Paramount Worldwide Productions Inc. Stage 6 Films, Inc.
Patch Bay Productions LLC Stalwart Productions, LLC
Peanuts Productions (USA), Inc. Story Ink, Ltd.
Pecubu Productions, Inc. Storybuilders, LLC
Perdido Productions, Inc. Storyteller Production Co., LLC
Picrow, Inc. Stu Segall Productions, Inc.
Picrow Streaming Inc. Studio Art & Technology, LLC
Pitch N Sync, Inc. SWS Productions, Inc.
Platform One Media Productions, LLC
PN Film Production, LLC Take Note, Inc.
Pour Animer, LLC Talk WW Production, Inc.
Power Valley Events, Inc. The Traveling Lab
PP21 Productions LLC Theatrical Resources, LLC
Produced Bayou, Inc. Theoretical Pictures, Inc.
Production Partners, Inc. Tom T. Animation, Inc.
Program Productions, Inc. Tomorrow Friends LLC
Proximity Productions LLC Touchdown Entertainment, Inc.
Tough House Productions, Inc.
Quest Productions, Inc. TRIO Entertainment Services
Group, LLC
R/H Factor, Inc. TRIO Worldwide, LLC
Ralph Edwards/Stu Billet Productions Triple Point Productions LLC
Random Pictures Inc. Turner Films, Inc.
Rebel Artichoke, Inc. TVM Productions, Inc.
Red Zone Pictures, Inc. Twentieth Century Fox Film
Redemption Pictures, Inc. Corporation dba 20th Television
Reunion 2017 LLC
Riverboat Productions, LLC Uncle Easy Productions, LLC
River Road Entertainment Productions, Universal Animation Studios LLC
LLC Universal City Studios LLC
Rocart, Inc. Universal Content Productions LLC
Rose City Pictures, Inc. Upload Films Inc.
Rozar Pictures, LLC Upside Down Productions Inc.
Ruff Draft Productions, LLC Usagi Productions LLC
- 3 -

--- PAGE 77 of 277 ---

Warner Bros. Television
Vertical Hold Productions LLC Warner Specialty Productions Inc.
Warner Specialty Video
WAG Pictures Inc. Productions Inc.
Walden Media Productions LLC Watermark Holding Company, LLC
Walk by Faith Film, LLC Waveform Productions LLC
Walt Disney Pictures Westwind Studios, LLC
Warner Bros. Advanced Media Wings Wildlife Productions Inc.
Services Inc. (Except IATSE Woodridge Productions, Inc.
Local 700/formerly Local 683)
Warner Bros. Animation Inc. YNFS Productions LLC
Warner Bros. Pictures
Warner Bros. Studio Operations
all of whom are parties of the first part, hereinafter referred to
individually as a "Producer" and collectively as the "Producers" and the
INTERNATIONAL ALLIANCE OF THEATRICAL STAGE
EMPLOYEES AND MOVING PICTURE TECHNICIANS,
ARTISTS AND ALLIED CRAFTS OF THE UNITED STATES,
ITS TERRITORIES AND CANADA, party of the second part,
hereinafter referred to as the "IATSE."
WHEREAS, the Motion Picture Producers are engaged in
the making, taking, processing, editing, producing and distributing of
motion and still pictures throughout the United States and Canada, and
elsewhere; and the Laboratory Employers are engaged in rendering
photographic or laboratory services for the making, taking, processing,
editing, producing and distributing of motion and still pictures
throughout the United States and Canada; and they severally are
desirous of entering into an agreement with respect to the matters and
things hereinafter in this agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS, the IATSE is an international labor union
organized in the United States, its territories and Canada, for the mutual
benefit of its members, and is affiliated with the American Federation of
Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations, and has heretofore
chartered and established, among others, fourteen (14) local labor unions
whose members are employed in the West Coast Studios of the
Producers, and is desirous of entering into an agreement with respect to
the matters and things hereafter in this agreement set forth, so that the
same may inure to the benefit of the members of the IATSE; and
- 4 -

--- PAGE 78 of 277 ---

WHEREAS, said fourteen (14) West Coast Studio Locals of
the IATSE are named as follows:
Affiliated Property Craftspersons Local No. 44
Motion Picture Studio Grips Local No. 80
International Cinematographers Guild Local No. 600
IATSE Production Sound Technicians, Television
Engineers, Video Assist Technicians and
Studio Projectionists Local No. 695
Motion Picture Editors Guild Local No. 700
Motion Picture Costumers Local No. 705
Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists Local No. 706
Studio Electrical Lighting Technicians Local No. 728
Motion Picture Set Painters and Sign Writers Local No. 729
Art Directors Guild Local No. 800
The Animation Guild Local No. 839
Script Supervisors/Continuity, Coordinators,
Accountants & Allied Production
Specialists Guild Local No. 871
Motion Picture Studio Teachers and
Welfare Workers Local No. 884
Costume Designers Guild Local No. 892
and which Local Unions (together with such other Local Unions, if any,
as may be covered by this Agreement pursuant to Article III hereof) will
hereinafter collectively be referred to as the West Coast Studio Locals;
and
WHEREAS, the IATSE represents that the majority of the
employees of the Producers, and each of them, in the crafts and
classifications of work described in Articles III and IV hereof (all of said
crafts and classifications of work constituting an indivisible and integral
bargaining unit), are members of the IATSE and of one or more of its
said West Coast Studio Locals; and
- 5 -

--- PAGE 79 of 277 ---

WHEREAS, now, therefore, in consideration of the mutual
covenants, conditions and agreements herein contained, the parties
covenant and agree as follows:
I. Term of Agreement
The term of this Agreement shall be for a period of three (3)
years commencing with August 1, 2021 and extending to and including
July 31, 2024; provided, however, that either party may, by written
notice to the other, served on or before May 1, 2024, request
renegotiation of the West Coast Studio Local Agreements and this
Agreement. Such notice shall set forth in detail the proposals or
recommendations of the party serving said notice of request for
renegotiations. If such notice is served, the parties agree to commence
negotiations within thirty (30) days after May 1, 2024, concerning the
proposals or recommendations set forth therein and to continue such
negotiations diligently and in good faith. Any such changes with respect
to wage rates agreed upon by the parties in such negotiations shall be
effective as of August 1, 2021 unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
With respect to other changes agreed to as a result of such negotiations,
such new or modified provisions shall become effective between the
parties as of the date they shall mutually agree upon.
II. Union Security
(a) Producers severally agree that each and every employee
hired by the Producer to perform services in the County of Los Angeles,
or hired by the Producer in the County of Los Angeles to perform
services outside said County, in the crafts and classifications of work
described in Articles III and IV hereof, shall be and remain a member in
good standing of the IATSE and the appropriate West Coast Studio
Locals on and after the thirtieth day following the first day of
employment or the effective date of such respective agreements between
the Producers and the several unions, whichever is the later. The
foregoing requirements of union membership as a condition of
employment shall be subject to the obligations of the parties under the
law.
As defined and applied in this Article II, the term
"member of the Union in good standing" means a person who offers to
pay (and, if the Union accepts the offer, pays) Union initiation fees and
dues as financial obligations in accordance with the requirements of the
National Labor Relations Act.
(b) Within a reasonable time, but not to exceed three (3)
days after receipt of written notice from the IATSE and/or the Local
- 6 -

--- PAGE 80 of 277 ---

Union that any such then-employed employee is not a member as above
required, and that such employee has been so notified in writing prior to
such notice to Producer, the Producer shall discharge any such employee
who fails to remedy such default within said three (3) days after
Producer receives such notice. The Producer shall not be in default
unless it fails to act, if necessary, within said time after receipt of such
notice.
(c) Producers severally agree to inform the respective West
Coast Studio Locals, in writing, within seven (7) days (Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays excluded) from the date of employment hereafter
of any employee subject to this Agreement, of such employee's name,
residence address, Social Security number, and date of employment.
(d) The Producer agrees not to discriminate against any
IATSE member who may apply for a vacant position nor to discharge or
discriminate in any way against any employee because of such
membership.
(e) In case of repeal or amendment of the Labor
Management Relations Act of 1947 or in case of new legislation
rendering permissible any union security to the IATSE and/or its West
Coast Studio Locals greater than those specified in this Article II, then
and in such event, such provisions shall automatically be deemed
substituted in lieu thereof. In such event, and if permissible under law,
the IATSE and its respective West Coast Studio Locals agree to supply
adequate, competent and qualified employees for the job requirements of
the Producers in the crafts and classifications covered by this
Agreement, and if the IATSE and/or the respective West Coast Studio
Locals fail to do so, the Producers may secure such employees from any
source.
III. Scope of Agreement
The crafts and classifications of work subject to this
Agreement are the crafts and classifications described in the Agreements
referred to in Article IV of this Agreement, and such other crafts and
classifications of work in which the Producers shall hereafter recognize
the IATSE and/or a West Coast Studio Local chartered by the IATSE as
the collective bargaining agent of the employees in such crafts or
classifications, or in which the IATSE and/or a West Coast Studio Local
chartered by the IATSE shall be designated by the National Labor
Relations Board as the collective bargaining agent of such employees.
Upon such recognition or designation as aforesaid, this Agreement shall
immediately become effective and operative with respect to such
employees.
- 7 -

--- PAGE 81 of 277 ---

IV. Wage Scales, Hours of Employment and Working
Conditions
The "Wage Scales, Hours of Employment and Working
Conditions" applicable to employees in the crafts and classifications of
work subject to this Agreement shall be those contained in this
Agreement and in Agreements in effect between the Producers, on the
one hand, and the IATSE and the respective West Coast Studio Locals,
on the other hand, which Agreements shall be controlled by and subject
to this Agreement.
Specifically with respect to the wage scales, hours of
employment and working conditions applicable to employees employed
on digitally-recorded television motion pictures,1 the following shall
govern:
(a) The wage scales, hours of employment and
working conditions set forth in the Videotape Agreement shall apply to
employees employed on non-dramatic and non-prime time dramatic
television motion pictures recorded digitally.
(b) The wage scales, hours of employment and
working conditions set forth in the "Wage Scales, Hours of Employment
and Working Conditions" in the West Coast Studio Local Agreements
shall apply to employees employed on one-hour and long-form prime
time2 dramatic3 television motion pictures recorded digitally.
(c) The wage scales set forth in the West Coast
Studio Local Agreements, and the working conditions set forth in the
Videotape Agreement, shall apply to employees employed on one-half
hour prime time dramatic television motion pictures recorded digitally,
except that:
(1) Paragraphs 5 ("Night Premiums") and 10
("Call-backs") of the West Coast Studio Local Agreements shall apply
in lieu of Paragraphs 16 ("Night Premiums") and 28 ("Call-backs") of
the Videotape Agreement for employees employed on one-half hour
1 During the 2015 negotiations, the parties agreed to incorporate the provisions of the
2012 Supplemental Digital Production Agreement (the "Digital Agreement"), which applied to
digitally-recorded television motion pictures, in the Videotape Electronics Supplemental Basic
Agreement ("Videotape Agreement") and the West Coast Studio Local Agreements as provided
herein.
2 For the purpose of this Agreement, "prime time" shall be defined as the hours between
8:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. in the Eastern and Pacific time zones from Monday through Saturday
(one hour earlier in the Central and Mountain time zones) and between the hours of 7:00 p.m.
and 11:00 p.m. in the Eastern and Pacific time zones on Sunday (one hour earlier in the Central
and Mountain time zones).
3 For sake of clarity, "situation comedies" recorded digitally for television are included
within the meaning of "dramatic television motion pictures."
- 8 -

--- PAGE 82 of 277 ---

single camera prime time dramatic television motion pictures recorded
digitally;
(2) The special conditions set forth in Sideletter
No. 1 to the Videotape Agreement shall apply to employees employed
on one-half hour pilots recorded digitally;
(3) The special conditions set forth in Sideletter
No. 2 of the Videotape Agreement shall apply to employees employed
on one-half hour single camera prime time dramatic television series
recorded digitally, the production of which commenced on or after
October 1, 2006; and
(4) The special conditions set forth in Sideletter
No. 4 to the Videotape Agreement shall apply to employees employed
on one-half hour dramatic pilots or series made for basic cable that are
recorded digitally.
V. Bargaining Agency
All of the crafts and classifications of work set forth in the
Agreements referred to in Articles III and IV hereof constitute an
indivisible and integral bargaining unit of which the IATSE is and shall
be the exclusive collective bargaining representative.
The bargaining unit covered by this Agreement is a single
multi-employer unit consisting of the Employers who are parties to this
Agreement (including, among others, the signatory members of the
Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (hereinafter "the
AMPTP")) and those Employers who have and may hereafter become
parties to this Agreement and who voluntarily signify their consent in
writing to be part of this multi-employer bargaining unit and to be bound
by this Agreement and the West Coast Studio Local Agreements which
are subject to this Agreement and any amendments, extensions or
renewals of such Agreements; provided, however, that such Employers
and the IATSE may agree upon individual adjustments on limited
matters of peculiar concern to the individual Employers as amendments
to such West Coast Studio Local Agreements, so long as such
adjustments are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Basic
Agreement. An individual Employer shall be designated as a "Producer"
and collectively as the "Producers" and as so identified shall mean only
those Employers who are parties to the instant multi-employer
bargaining unit. Each independent Producer who has become a party to
this Agreement and who has consented in writing to be part of this
multi-employer bargaining unit shall cause prompt notice thereof to be
given to the AMPTP or Contract Services Administrative Trust Fund
(hereinafter "CSATF"), as the case may be.
- 9 -

--- PAGE 83 of 277 ---

VI. Insignia of IATSE
The insignia of the IATSE is copyrighted and is the sole
property of the IATSE. The Producer hereby agrees to display the
insignia as herein authorized unless or until otherwise directed on any
and all motion pictures manufactured or produced under the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, which carry a credit title or titles. Said
insignia to be clear and distinct. It shall not be smaller in height than
one-fifteenth (1/15) of the vertical title card or frame used to produce the
title. Its other dimensions including those of the lettering connected
with it are to be proportionate in accordance with the insignia being used
by Producer on the execution date of this Agreement.
The IATSE insignia shall be placed on all sets, sections of
sets, props and backings, whenever feasible; the insignia, when affixed,
shall include the appropriate Local Union number. However, it will not
be a breach of this Agreement if, after authorization by the Producer, the
insignia is not affixed.
VII. Notices
Any notice required herein shall be deemed sufficient notice
as to a Producer if sent to such Producer at the address indicated
opposite its signature and, as to the IATSE, at the address indicated
opposite its signature. Any party may change its address at any time by
giving written notice of such change to the other parties. All notices
required herein shall be deemed sufficient if sent by telegram or certified
mail.
VIII. Foremen and Supervisory Employees
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Constitution and
By-laws of the IATSE or of any West Coast Local Union or in the
obligation taken by a person upon becoming a member of the IATSE
and/or any such Local Union, or otherwise, which directly, indirectly, or
impliedly places upon a foreman (or any person who is a supervisory
employee within the meaning of that term as set forth in the Labor
Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended), the duty or obligation
to accord an unlawful employment preference to members of the IATSE
and/or the Local Union, such foreman or supervisory employee shall not
give or recommend any unlawful employment preference, and the
IATSE and such Local Union shall not in any manner discipline or
threaten with discipline any such foreman or supervisory employee for
failing or refusing to give or recommend any such unlawful employment
preference.
- 10 -

--- PAGE 84 of 277 ---

IX. Preference of Employment
(a) With respect to employees hired by a Producer who is
part of the multi-employer bargaining unit, regardless of membership in
the AMPTP, to perform services in the County of Los Angeles,
California, or hired by such Producer in the County of Los Angeles,
California, to perform services outside such County, preference in
employment shall be given to persons having previous work experience
in the crafts and classifications of work subject to this Agreement,
obtained while employed by Producers who are part of the multi-
employer bargaining unit, in Los Angeles County or outside such
County if hired by such Producer in the County to perform such
services. In addition, preference of employment may be given to Prior-
Experienced Individuals pursuant to Article XLVIII(e) and to persons
who have accepted an offer of employment from a Producer in
fulfillment of its commitment pursuant to Article XLVIII(c)(1)(vii) to
enable individuals who have successfully completed the Producer's
working internship program to obtain the requisite work experience to
qualify for placement on the Industry Experience Roster.
(b) The definite terms of such preference or seniority shall
be as set forth in the written Agreements between the Producers who are
bound to this Agreement as part of the multi-employer bargaining unit
and the IATSE and the respective West Coast Studio Locals.
(c) All West Coast Studio Local Agreements are hereby
amended to conform to this Article and, whenever reference in such
Agreements is made to a collective bargaining agreement or to an
employer for purposes of the Industry Experience Roster, such reference
shall apply only to a collective bargaining agreement subject to this
Agreement or the Videotape Agreement, and only to an Employer or
Producer who is part of the multi-employer bargaining unit.
(d) A person who retires under the Motion Picture Industry
Pension Plan or a private retirement plan specified in such Industry
Pension Plan, Article XV, shall not have any preference of employment
and shall be removed from the Studio and Industry Experience Rosters;
however, the employer may employ such employee as though he had
such preference and had not been removed from such roster.
(e) There shall be a single film-tape Industry Experience
Roster system described below based on the single multi-employer
bargaining unit of the AMPTP and those employers who consent to be
part of the above-described unit.
(f) Persons shall be eligible for placement on the
appropriate Local rosters on the following basis:
- 11 -

--- PAGE 85 of 277 ---

(1) Employees who, during a three hundred sixty-
five (365) day period, performed services in the multi-employer unit for
thirty (30) working days with one or more employers in Los Angeles
County (or outside Los Angeles County if hired in and transported from
Los Angeles County to perform such services) shall be eligible for
placement on the respective Industry Experience Roster (except when a
Local Agreement provides otherwise).
(2) Each applicant for roster placement shall have the
burden of establishing his or her eligibility. The applicant must file an
application with CSATF within six (6) months after the completion of
the work experience required for eligibility. Such application must be
perfected no later than one (1) year following the date of the last work
day to be considered as qualifying experience. Such application shall be
subject to appropriate verification by CSATF. Satisfactory completion
of the "A" safety training course and the harassment prevention training
course through CSATF is required for placement on the Industry
Experience Roster.
(g) Utilization of Rosters
(1) In the Technical Department (Article 15 of the
Videotape Agreement) and other classifications for which there is a
material difference between the function in tape and film, employees
shall be identified on the rosters for the appropriate Local by their
primary skill.
(2) Employees shall be selected from the rosters by
the Producers if they are deemed qualified and available for the
particular assignment.
(3) The requests by Producer for employees from the
roster who are to be employed under the Videotape Agreement shall be
directed to the West Coast Office of the IATSE.
(4) Employees who refuse three (3) successive calls,
whether for film or tape, must be removed from the respective roster
unless their refusal is due to work being performed for a Producer. In
this connection, it shall be noted that it is expected that one employee
may appear on more than one Local Union roster and that roster removal
requirements will be triggered only by three (3) refusals under the same
roster.
(5) A person on the Industry Experience Roster who
fails to successfully complete legally required industry safety training
courses by a date to be mutually agreed upon by the IATSE and
AMPTP, or refresher Safety Pass training and/or harassment prevention
training by a date scheduled by CSATF, shall be temporarily removed
- 12 -

--- PAGE 86 of 277 ---

from the Industry Experience Roster. The IATSE and AMPTP agree
that, prior to November 21, 2021, a person must complete all required
courses and or training within six (6) months. On or after November 21,
2021, a person must complete all required online courses and/or training
within ninety (90) days of placement on the Industry Experience Roster
and all other required courses and/or training within six (6) months of
placement on the Industry Experience Roster.
During the time the person is so temporarily
removed from such Roster, the Producer is not obligated to call such
person. The person shall be reinstated to his/her former Roster status
upon successful completion of said courses and/or training.
(6) The Advisory Committee will assist CSATF in
moving those listed on the Industry Experience Roster in non-existent
classifications into classifications identified in the West Coast Studio
Local Agreements.
(h) Interchange
(1) It is understood that none of the foregoing is to
affect in any way the right to interchange personnel under the Videotape
Agreement or under any of the West Coast Studio Local Agreements, to
the extent therein provided.
(2) Studio Seniority Rosters do not apply to the
Technical Department under the Videotape Agreement.
(i) Roster Certification Form
The Producer and the IATSE will jointly develop a
form for use by a Producer to notify CSATF that an individual is being
certified for roster placement. The form shall include provisions for:
(1) The number of qualifying days worked by the
employee;
(2) The roster classification within which the
employee worked; and
(3) A notation whether the work performed was
satisfactory or unsatisfactory.
The IATSE and the affected West Coast Studio Local
shall have the right to challenge any roster placement with respect to the
provisions contained in subparagraphs (1) and (2) above under the
following roster arbitration procedure.
- 13 -

--- PAGE 87 of 277 ---

(j) Roster Arbitration Procedure
Disputes regarding the placement or removal of any
person from the Industry Experience Roster arising from the contention
that the person is not eligible to be placed on the roster under the
applicable Agreement shall be resolved in the following manner:
(1) The IATSE and Producers select Fredric
Horowitz to act as the impartial arbitrator in all cases submitted to
arbitration under this Article, and Mark Burstein as the alternate
impartial arbitrator in the event the impartial arbitrator is unavailable or
unwilling to act.
(2) The IATSE and the Producers agree to submit to
final and binding arbitration before the impartial arbitrator disputes
involving the placement of any person on the Industry Experience
Roster in accordance with this Article.
(3) CSATF shall notify the IATSE and the West
Coast Studio Local Unions involved of its intention to place a person on
the Industry Experience Roster. Such notice shall contain the person's
address, telephone number, Social Security number (last four digits) and
email address, provided CSATF has such information. The IATSE or
the West Coast Studio Local Union may protest the intended action of
CSATF within twenty (20) business days by a written notice to CSATF.
In the event of a protest, CSATF shall notify the Producer(s) involved
and the person. The person will not be placed on the roster until the
matter has been determined. Upon such protest, a hearing shall be
scheduled before the impartial arbitrator. If no protest is filed within ten
(10) business days, the respective parties waive the right to protest.
(4) In an arbitration conducted pursuant to this
Article, CSATF shall participate as an administrative witness and a
custodian of records, and the IATSE, or a West Coast Studio Local
Union designated in writing by the IATSE, shall represent the IATSE.
Any person whose intended roster placement is involved in such dispute
shall be entitled to have his/her own counsel at his/her own expense
present at the arbitration. This provision shall not be construed as
conferring upon such person the rights of a third party to the arbitration,
and such arbitration will be solely between the Producer(s) and the
IATSE.
(5) The impartial arbitrator shall hold a hearing
within ten (10) business days after receipt of a request from the IATSE
or Producer(s). Such hearing shall be held on an informal basis. The
arbitrator shall have the authority to establish uniform and equitable
procedures for the conduct of the hearing.
- 14 -

--- PAGE 88 of 277 ---

(6) The award of the arbitrator shall be rendered in
writing within ten (10) business days after the conclusion of the hearing
unless the time is expressly extended by the Producer(s) and the IATSE.
The written award of the impartial arbitrator shall be final and binding
upon the IATSE and its West Coast Studio Locals, CSATF, the
Producer(s) and any person whose roster placement is at issue. In the
event that the award of the impartial arbitrator is to place the individual's
name on the roster, the person's roster date shall be retroactive to the
date that said person would have been placed on the roster but for said
protest.
(7) The fees of the impartial arbitrator and the costs
of the arbitration, if any, shall be shared equally by the Producer(s) and
by the IATSE. All other costs and fees shall be borne by the party
incurring the same.
(k) Removal from Industry Experience Roster
A person shall be removed from the Industry
Experience Roster in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
various Local Agreements.
In the event of a protest, the person's name will not be
removed from the Industry Experience Roster until the matter has been
determined.
Protests involving removal shall be subject to the same
procedure outlined regarding placements, as set forth in subparagraph (j)
of this Article, "Roster Arbitration Procedure," except that when
references are made to "Producer(s)" in said procedure, such reference
shall be deemed to mean CSATF for the purpose of this removal
procedure.
The IATSE or the Local Union and CSATF may, by
mutual agreement, extend any time limits set forth in the Sections on
"Roster Arbitration Procedure" of this Article or "Removal from
Industry Experience Roster" of the applicable Local Agreements.
An employee on permanent disability status with one
Employer may not work for another Employer in the same craft and will
be removed from the Industry Experience Roster in that craft.
X. Exculpatory Clause
The Producers agree that they will not make any claim or
institute or join any suit or proceeding in any tribunal against the IATSE
by reason of, or otherwise seek to hold the IATSE responsible for any
- 15 -

--- PAGE 89 of 277 ---

acts, conduct or omissions on the part of any chartered Local Union or
any of its members, unless such acts, conduct or omissions were actually
and in fact instigated or done by the IATSE. In respect to any such
questions of alleged liability of the IATSE, it is agreed that the General
Executive Board or the International President or his duly designated
International Representative shall be the only body or person authorized
to act as agent or representative for and on behalf of the IATSE.
The IATSE, its officers, agents and members shall not be
held liable in any manner whatsoever for any strike, slowdown, work
stoppage or any other form of action which results in cessation, stoppage
or delay of work or production, unless such action is officially
authorized by the IATSE, nor will the IATSE be held liable for any
unauthorized acts or activities of its officers, agents or members. The
IATSE agrees that it will, upon receipt of notification from the
Producers of such acts or activities, promptly advise its members that
such acts or activities are unauthorized by the IATSE, and will use its
best efforts to require a discontinuance of such cessation, stoppage or
delay of work or production.
The IATSE agrees that it will not sanction any strike by any
of the West Coast Studio Locals against any Producer, except in the
event of a material breach of a provision of this Basic Agreement. Prior
to calling a material breach, the President of the IATSE shall meet with
the President of the AMPTP to discuss the matter. Such meeting shall
be without prejudice to the parties' positions as to the materiality of the
alleged breach.
XI. Short Title
This Agreement shall be referred to as the "Producer -
I.A.T.S.E. and M.P.T.A.A.C. Basic Agreement of 2021" and shall, as of
its effective date, terminate and replace any previous Basic Agreement
between the IATSE and the respective Producers. Provided, however,
this Agreement shall not affect or discharge any obligation or right
accrued prior to August 1, 2021 under the provisions of such previous
Basic Agreement.
XII. Health Plan
(a) Producers, the IATSE, and the respective West Coast
Locals are parties to the "Agreement and Declaration of Trust
establishing the Health Plan for the Employees of the Motion Picture
Industry" (hereinafter referred to as the "Health Plan") made as of
October 20, 1952. Such Health Plan was established in accordance with
- 16 -

--- PAGE 90 of 277 ---

the provisions of the "Producer-I.A.T.S.E. and M.P.M.O. Supplemental
Agreement of October 25, 1951."
(b) In accordance with Article V, Sections 1 and 2 of such
Health Plan, and subject to the provisions for changes hereinafter set
forth, Producer shall make contributions to the Health Plan as follows:
(1) Basic Rate. A Producer which qualifies as a "$15
Million Contributor" (as defined below) shall contribute to the Health
Plan:
(i) four dollars ninety-one and three-tenths
cents ($4.913) for each hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by
such Producer on or after August 1, 2021 to and including July 30, 2022
under the terms of this Agreement, including "straight time" and
"overtime" hours on any day worked;
(ii) five dollars thirty-one and three-tenths cents
($5.313) for each hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by such
Producer on or after July 31, 2022 to and including July 29, 2023 under
the terms of this Agreement, including "straight time" and "overtime"
hours on any day worked; and
(iii) five dollars seventy-one and three-tenths
cents ($5.713) for each hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by
such Producer on or after July 30, 2023 to and including July 31, 2024
under the terms of this Agreement, including "straight time" and
"overtime" hours on any day worked.
It is understood that any Producer which has been
recognized or is hereafter recognized by the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans as a "$15 Million Contributor," and any entity
related to or affiliated with such Producer that exists now or may exist in
the future, qualifies as a "$15 Million Contributor."
(2) Premium Rate. A Producer which does not
qualify as a "$15 Million Contributor" (other than an Employer covered
under Article XII(b)(3) below) shall contribute to the Health Plan:
(i) seven dollars fifty-six and three-tenths cents
($7.563) for each hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by such
Producer on or after August 1, 2021 to and including July 30, 2022
under the terms of this Agreement, including "straight time" and
"overtime" hours on any day worked;
(ii) eight dollars seventy-six and three-tenths
cents ($8.763) for each hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by
such Producer on or after July 31, 2022 to and including July 29, 2023
- 17 -

--- PAGE 91 of 277 ---

under the terms of this Agreement, including "straight time" and
"overtime" hours on any day worked; and
(iii) nine dollars ninety-six and three-tenths cents
($9.963) for each hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by such
Producer on or after July 30, 2023 to and including July 31, 2024 under
the terms of this Agreement, including "straight time" and "overtime"
hours on any day worked.
(3) During the 2021 negotiations, the bargaining
parties agreed to recommend to the Directors of the Motion Picture
Industry Health Plan that (i) the Employers identified on the list
provided by the IATSE to the AMPTP on September 15, 2021 and (ii)
any Employer signatory to the Basic Agreement which is a “shop” or
“facility” shall make contributions to the Plans at the same rate as Rate
Group 48, which shall remain at least $2.00 above the Basic Rate in
Article XII(b)(1) of this Agreement. The Directors of the Plan shall
establish a definition of “shop” or “facility” for purposes of this
provision. Any dispute whether an Employer qualifies as a “shop” or
“facility” signatory to the Basic Agreement shall be resolved by the
Directors of the Plan.
(4) Commencing with the quarter ending September
30, 2021 and at the end of every subsequent calendar quarter during the
term of this Agreement, the consultants for the Health and Pension Plans
shall project the level of reserves in the Active Employees Fund for the
term of the Agreement.
If, at any time during the term of this Agreement,
the consultants project that the level of reserves in the Active Employees
Fund will fall below six (6) months, or that the level of reserves in the
Retired Employees Fund will fall below eight (8) months, then the
IATSE will reallocate up to one percent (1%) from wages and/or the
Individual Account Plan, or any combination thereof, until such time as
the reserves are restored to the six (6) or eight (8) month level, as
applicable. It is understood that this may occur more than once during
the term of this Agreement.
(c) In the event additional crafts and classifications of work
shall, as herein provided, become subject to this Agreement subsequent
to July 31, 2021, then and in such event, this Article XII shall only be
effective and applicable to employees thereafter employed hereunder by
Producer in such crafts and classifications of work, commencing as of a
date thereafter upon which the Producer and IATSE shall mutually
agree.
- 18 -

--- PAGE 92 of 277 ---

(d) When a minimum call is applicable and the employee
works less than the minimum call, then the minimum call shall
constitute time worked. Employees subject to this Agreement employed
for full weeks under guaranteed weekly salary schedules shall be
credited with not less than the hours guaranteed the employees under
such guaranteed weekly salary schedule. In the event such employee
works in excess of such applicable number of hours guaranteed in such
weekly schedule, then additional contributions shall be made on such
excess hours worked.
(e) For purposes of this provision, studio, nearby and
distant location employment under "on call" weekly schedules4 shall be
considered as follows:
(1) Partial week - twelve (12) hours per day (thirteen
(13) hours per day effective July 31, 2022; fourteen (14) hours per day
effective July 30, 2023);
(2) Five day week - sixty (60) hours per week (sixty-
five (65) hours per week effective July 31, 2022; seventy (70) hours per
week effective July 30, 2023);
(3) Six day week - seventy-two (72) hours per week
(seventy-seven (77) hours per week effective July 31, 2022; eighty-two
(82) hours per week effective July 30, 2023); and
(4) Seven day week - eighty-four (84) hours per week
(eighty-nine (89) hours per week effective July 31, 2022; ninety-four
(94) hours per week effective July 30, 2023).
For the sixth day not worked on distant location, health
contributions for "on call" employees shall be based on seven (7) hours.
For the seventh day not worked on distant location, health contributions
for "on call" employees shall be based on eight (8) hours.
It is understood that the parties will establish
mechanisms at the Plan level so that when the Plans receive
contributions on behalf of "on call" employees from multiple Employers
for the same period, such Employers shall be entitled to a credit against
future contributions on a pro rata basis.
4 Notwithstanding the increase in the number of hours on which pension, health and IAP
contributions are to be submitted for "on call" employees, it is agreed that for any period in
which the wage increase is based upon a cents-per-hour formula, salary increases for "on call"
employees for that period shall nevertheless continue to be calculated in accordance with the
parties' past practice.
- 19 -

--- PAGE 93 of 277 ---

(f) During the period August 1, 2021 to and including July
31, 2024:
Except for (i) eligibility standards, which shall be
maintained at the level in effect on August 1, 2011, and (ii) the usual,
customary and reasonable (UCR) schedules, which shall be maintained
at the level in effect immediately following the replacement of
INGENIX schedules in effect on August 1, 2009, all other benefits
(including the bank of hours provision and dental and vision benefits)
under the Active Employees Fund shall be maintained at the level in
effect on August 1, 2009 in the following manner:
If, at any time during the term of this Agreement, the
level of reserves in the Active Employees Fund drops below eight (8)
months, the Trustees, in conjunction with the Plan consultants, shall
review the projections as to future reserve levels. If the consultants
project, taking into account a reasonable amount of Supplemental
Markets income, that the level of reserves in the Active Employees Fund
will fall below six (6) months during the term of this Agreement, the
following steps shall be taken:
(1) First, monies received from Post '60s payments in
excess of the amount needed to fund the additional check(s) for retired
employees, as provided in Article XIII(f)(2) of the 2000, 2003, 2006 and
2009 Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreements, and in excess of the
amount needed for an eight (8) month level of reserves in the Retired
Employees Fund, shall be allocated to the Active Employees Fund;
(2) Thereafter, if the consultants project, taking into
account a reasonable amount of Supplemental Markets income, that: (i)
the reallocation of wages and/or contributions from the Individual
Account Plan above will not restore the level of reserves in the Active
Employees Fund to six (6) months during the term of this Agreement;
and (ii) the level of reserves will drop below four (4) months during the
term of this Agreement, then employer contributions will be increased to
the amount and for such time as is necessary to create a four (4) month
reserve level for the maintained benefits.
(g) The Affordable Care Act added a provision to the
Internal Revenue Code to require a non-deductible excise tax (also
known as the "Cadillac" tax) on certain employer-sponsored health
coverage for tax years beginning in 2022. Although this provision was
later repealed, as a matter of mutual concern, the bargaining parties
agree in principle that the funds of the Health Plan should be used for
the Plan's participants and their dependents and not diverted to the
payment of an excise tax that is of no benefit to the Plan's participants
and their dependents. In light of the foregoing, the bargaining parties
agree to recommend to the Directors of the Health Plan that the Health
- 20 -

--- PAGE 94 of 277 ---

Plan shall be operated in a manner such that no excise tax shall be owed
at any time.
(h) It is understood and agreed that with respect to the
employees subject to this Agreement who are employed by Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc., the following provisions shall also apply:
For the purposes of the following provisions of this
Article, the above-mentioned Health Plan will be referred to as the
"Health Plan" and the Retirement Plan for Employees of Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. will be referred to as the "Retirement Plan."
Notwithstanding the extension of said termination date
as aforesaid and notwithstanding any of the preceding provisions of this
Article or of any provisions of the Health Plan, Producer shall not be
obligated to establish a reserve for or to make payments into the Health
Plan with respect to any employee of Producer who is or becomes a
member of the Retirement Plan on or before March 1, 1961 while he is a
member of the Retirement Plan, nor shall such employee be subject to
the Health Plan during such period (except pursuant to the provisions of
the last paragraph of this subparagraph).
An employee who became a member of the Retirement
Plan on or before March 1, 1961 shall not be considered to be subject to
a "union welfare contract" effective as to such employee, within the
meaning of Paragraph 36 of the Retirement Plan, during such time as he
is a member of the Retirement Plan. An employee who withdrew from
the Retirement Plan on or before March 1, 1961 shall be considered to
be subject to a "union welfare contract" effective as to such employee,
within the meaning of Paragraph 36 of the Retirement Plan.
Nothing herein set forth shall preclude an employee
who elected to remain or become a member of the Retirement Plan on or
before March 1, 1961, also to become or remain, independently and at
his own expense, subject to the Health Plan. Any employee who,
pursuant to this Article, independently and at his own expense becomes
or remains subject to the Health Plan during any period when he is also a
member of the Retirement Plan shall not be deemed to be an employee
subject to a "union welfare contract" within the meaning of Paragraph 36
of the Retirement Plan. Any such employee shall pay the same amount
into the Health Plan as would be paid or set up as a reserve with respect
to such employee by Producer had such employee not been a member of
the Retirement Plan.
Any person subject to this Agreement who continues in
the employment of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. after his normal
retirement date under the Retirement Plan, shall, during the period of
- 21 -

--- PAGE 95 of 277 ---

such employment after such normal retirement date, be subject to the
Health Plan.
(i) On an annual basis during the term of this Agreement,
the AMPTP, the IATSE and the Chairman of the Basic Crafts (on behalf
of the Basic Crafts Group) shall jointly review the allocation to the
Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans from Supplemental
Markets in conjunction with the allocation of Post '60s monies. Any
agreement mutually agreed upon by them shall become a part of this
Agreement.
(j) Effective August 1, 2021, for a dental plan, the
Producer shall contribute to the Health Plan eighteen and seven-tenths
cents (18.7¢) for each hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by
such Producer on or after August 1, 2021 under the terms of this
Agreement, including "straight time" or "overtime" hours on any day
worked. The provisions of subparagraphs (c), (d) and (e) shall apply to
the provisions of this subsection.
(k) Effective August 1, 2021, for a vision care plan, the
Producer shall contribute to the Health Plan five cents (5¢) for each hour
worked by or guaranteed an employee by such Producer on or after
August 1, 2021 under the terms of this Agreement, including "straight
time" and "overtime" hours for any day worked. The provisions of
subparagraphs (c), (d) and (e) shall apply to this subsection.
(l) At least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of this
Agreement, the parties will meet to determine the impact of
national/state health care reform and will negotiate new health care
provisions accordingly.
XIII. Pension Plan
(a) Producers, the IATSE and the respective West Coast
Locals are parties to the "Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan"
(hereinafter referred to as the "Pension Plan") made as of October 26,
1953. Such Pension Plan was established in accordance with the
provisions of the "Producer-I.A.T.S.E. and M.P.M.O. Amendment
Agreement of October 26, 1953."
(b) In accordance with Article III, Sections 2 and 3 of the
Pension Plan and subject to the provisions of such Pension Plan relating
to private retirement plans, the Producer shall pay into the Pension Plan
one dollar eighty and sixty-five hundredths cents ($1.8065) for each
hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by such Producer during the
period August 1, 2021 through July 31, 2024.
- 22 -

--- PAGE 96 of 277 ---

Such money paid by Producer into the Pension Plan
shall not constitute nor be deemed to be wages due to the individual
employees subject to this Agreement, nor shall said money paid into the
Pension Plan in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts,
contracts, liabilities or torts of such employees.
(c) When a minimum call is applicable and the employee
works less than the minimum call, the minimum call shall constitute
time worked. Employees subject to this Agreement employed for full
weeks under guaranteed weekly salary schedules shall be credited with
not less than the hours guaranteed the employee under such guaranteed
weekly salary schedule. In the event such employee works in excess of
such applicable number of hours guaranteed in such weekly schedule,
then additional contributions shall be made on such excess hours
worked.
(d) For purposes of this provision, studio, nearby and
distant location employment under "on call" weekly schedules shall be
considered as follows:
(1) Partial week - twelve (12) hours per day (thirteen
(13) hours per day effective July 31, 2022; fourteen (14) hours per day
effective July 30, 2023);
(2) Five day week - sixty (60) hours per week (sixty-
five (65) hours per week effective July 31, 2022; seventy (70) hours per
week effective July 30, 2023);
(3) Six day week - seventy-two (72) hours per week
(seventy-seven (77) hours per week effective July 31, 2022; eighty-two
(82) hours per week effective July 30, 2023); and
(4) Seven day week - eighty-four (84) hours per week
(eighty-nine (89) hours per week effective July 31, 2022; ninety-four
(94) hours per week effective July 30, 2023).
For the sixth day not worked on distant location,
pension contributions for "on call" employees shall be based on seven
(7) hours. For the seventh day not worked on distant location, pension
contributions for "on call" employees shall be based on eight (8) hours.
It is understood that the parties will establish
mechanisms at the Plan level so that when the Plans receive
contributions on behalf of "on call" employees from multiple Employers
for the same period, such Employers shall be entitled to a credit against
future contributions on a pro rata basis.
- 23 -

--- PAGE 97 of 277 ---

(e) In the event additional crafts and classifications of work
shall, as herein provided, become subject to this Agreement subsequent
to July 31, 2021, then and in such event, this Article XIII shall only be
effective and applicable to employees thereafter employed hereunder by
Producer in such crafts and classifications of work, commencing as of a
date thereafter upon which the Producer and the IATSE shall mutually
agree.
(f) (1) Contingent Pension Benefit Increase(s) Effective
January 1, 2024 and Every Three (3) Years Thereafter5
The bargaining parties agree to recommend to the
Directors of the Pension Plan the following pension benefit increase(s):
As soon as practicable following the end of the
first quarter of 2024 and every three years thereafter ("the evaluation
year"), the Health Plan's consultants, in conjunction with the Pension
Plan's actuaries, shall determine whether each of the Active Health Fund
and the Retired Employees Fund has at least eight (8) months of reserves
as of January 1st of the evaluation year, and the Pension Plan's actuaries
shall determine whether to certify that the Pension Plan is in the Green
Zone in the evaluation year. The foregoing determinations shall be
based upon the assumptions and methodologies, including but not
limited to the funding priorities established for Supplemental Markets
and Post '60s contributions, approved by the bargaining parties.
In the event that the Health Plan's consultants
certify that each of the Active Health Fund and the Retired Employees
Fund has at least eight (8) months of reserves on January 1st of the
evaluation year, and the Pension Plan's actuaries certify that the Pension
Plan is in the Green Zone in the evaluation year, the pension benefit
accrual rates shall be increased, effective January 1st of the evaluation
year, by ten percent (10%) retroactively for Credited Hours accumulated
during the three (3) year period immediately following the most recent
increase in the pension benefit accrual rate. For those individuals who
had a Break in Service during the three (3) year period immediately
preceding January 1st of the evaluation year, the increase shall apply
only to Credited Hours accumulated after the date of the most recent
Break in Service. (For example, an active participant in the Pension
Plan on January 1, 2024 who failed to accumulate at least two hundred
(200) Vested Hours in 2021 and 2022 is entitled to the ten percent (10%)
increase only for those Credited Hours accumulated on or after January
1, 2023.) Any retroactive payments required above shall be made
5 This provision assumes that the term of the successor agreements to the 2021 IATSE
Basic Agreement is three (3) years. If the term of a successor agreement is for a period other
than three (3) years, the evaluation year shall be the final year of the applicable IATSE Basic
Agreement and the period of the pension benefit increase shall be equivalent to such term.
- 24 -

--- PAGE 98 of 277 ---

without interest and as soon as practicable following the consultants'
certifications as provided above.
In the event that the reserve levels are below eight
(8) months in the Active Health Fund or the Retired Employees Fund on
January 1st of the evaluation year, or the Pension Plan is not certified to
be in the Green Zone in the evaluation year, the benefit accrual rates for
Credited Hours accumulated since the most recent increase in the
pension benefit accrual rate shall remain at the following rates:
(i) $0.03729 multiplied by the
Participant's total Credited Hours accumulated during the Participant's
first ten (10) Qualified Years;
(ii) $0.04972 multiplied by the
Participant's total Credited Hours accumulated during the Participant's
next ten (10) Qualified Years; and
(iii) $0.04972 multiplied by the
Participant's total Credited Hours accumulated after the Participant has
completed twenty (20) Qualified Years.
(2) The bargaining parties agree to recommend to the
Directors of the Pension Plan that the Pension Plan provide a thirteenth
and fourteenth check on or about November 1st of each year of this
Agreement to those retirees who retired on or before August 1, 2009 and
who were employed under the Basic Agreement and/or Videotape
Agreement or who were not covered by any collective bargaining
agreement during their employment (i.e., “non-affiliates”), provided that
the Pension Plan's actuaries, in conjunction with the Health Plan's
consultants, determine, taking into account the costs of such thirteenth
and fourteenth checks, that: (i) at least eight (8) months of reserves exist
in each of the Active Employees Fund and the Retired Employees Fund
at that time; (ii) the Plan is certified to be in the Green Zone in the
calendar year in which the check(s) are paid; (iii) the cost of thirteenth
and fourteenth checks, if any, granted during the term of the Agreement
shall be amortized over the fifteen (15) year amortization period
commencing January 1, 2017; and (iv) if there are insufficient funds in
the Pension Plan after accounting for existing obligations to provide
both a thirteenth and fourteenth check, then a thirteenth check will be
provided.
The foregoing Pension Plan improvements shall not be
applicable to any Plan participant who is covered by another collective
bargaining agreement, unless such collective bargaining agreement
contains this pension and health package on an equivalent economic
basis.
- 25 -

--- PAGE 99 of 277 ---

(g) It is understood that the bargaining parties and the
Directors of the Pension Plan will take all necessary steps to assure the
tax deductibility of employer contributions under the provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code as it now exists or is hereafter amended.
XIIIA. Motion Picture Industry Individual Account Plan
(a) The Producer shall contribute to the Individual Account
Plan, on behalf of each employee employed by the Producer hereunder,
six percent (6%) of the scale Regular Basic Hourly Rate of pay for all
hours worked by or guaranteed such employee during the period August
1, 2021 to and including July 31, 2024. (In the case of "on call"
employees, such percentage payment shall be based on the scale "on
call" rate.)
It is understood that the parties will establish
mechanisms at the Plan level so that when the Plans receive
contributions on behalf of "on call" employees from multiple Employers
for the same time period, such Employers shall be entitled to a credit
against future contributions on a pro rata basis.
(b) The parties agree that each employee's Individual
Account Plan shall vest after one (1) qualified year.
(c) Future reallocation of Post '60s and Supplemental
Markets monies to the Individual Account Plan shall be done on the
following basis:
(1) Only that portion of the reserves in the Active
Health Plan that exceeds the amount needed to furnish benefits to
participants in such Health Plan for twelve (12) months, and that portion
of the reserves in the Retiree Health Plan that exceeds the amount
needed to furnish benefits to participants in such Health Plan for twenty
(20) months, measured as of September 30 of each year, shall be subject
to reallocation. Reserve levels shall be calculated in accordance with the
continuation value measurement methodology heretofore adopted by the
Health Plan.
(2) If the Pension Plan's finalized actuarial valuation
report for the prior Plan Year shows that the Pension Plan is less than
one hundred percent (100%) funded under the Pension Protection Act
("PPA"), the excess amount shall be reallocated to the Pension Plan. If
such actuarial valuation report shows that the Pension Plan is at least one
hundred percent (100%) funded, then eighty percent (80%) of the excess
amount to be reallocated shall be allocated to the accounts of
participants in the Individual Account Plan and twenty percent (20%) of
the excess amount shall be designated as a credit against future
- 26 -

--- PAGE 100 of 277 ---

Supplemental Markets or Post '60s payments, to be divided up among
those Companies, each of which has made Supplemental Markets
payments to the Health Plan of not less than $15,000,000 (or has made
Post '60s payments to the Retired Employees Fund of not less than
$6,000,000) in the aggregate during the three (3) year period beginning
January 1, 1994 and ending on December 31, 1996 or in any subsequent
three (3) consecutive year period. For these purposes, the Supplemental
Markets and Post '60s payments made by Columbia and TriStar shall be
aggregated and the Supplemental Markets and Post '60s payments made
by Amblin Entertainment Inc. and DreamWorks shall be aggregated.
(3) It is understood that funding of the 1996, 2000,
2003 and 2006 pension benefit increases, as described in the 1996, 2000,
2003 and 2006 Producer-IATSE Basic Agreements, shall take place
before any monies are reallocated pursuant to this subparagraph (c).
XIIIB. 401(k) Plan Feasibility Study
A committee shall be established consisting of representatives of
the Producers and the IATSE to conduct a study regarding the
establishment of a 401(k) plan funded solely by employee salary
deferrals for participants in the Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan.
Among other considerations, the study will address the following:
(a) Whether the establishment and administration of the plan will
cause the Producers to incur increased costs;
(b) Whether the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health
Plans or another entity such as a third party administrator would be able
to administer the 401(k) plan as a separate plan; and
(c) Whether the plan is likely to or can be structured to satisfy all
legal requirements for 401(k) plans (e.g., non-discrimination testing
requirements, etc.).
The committee shall meet as soon as practicable in the beginning
of 2019. Once the study is complete, the committee shall report the
results of the study to the bargaining parties, who will determine jointly
whether to establish a 401(k) plan, and the nature of that 401(k) plan. It
is understood that other Union parties to the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans may join the committee, if agreed by
Producers.
- 27 -

--- PAGE 101 of 277 ---

XIIIC. Study and Analysis of the Structure of the Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans
A committee consisting of an equal number of
representatives of the Producers and the IATSE, in conjunction with the
Health Plan's consultants and the Pension Plan's actuaries, shall conduct
a joint study to examine the long-term status of the Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans and possible alternative Plan
structures going forward. The committee shall meet as soon as
practicable upon ratification of the Agreement with results of the study
due to the bargaining parties by July 1, 2022. It is understood that other
Union parties to the Plans may join the committee, if agreed by
Producers.
XIV. Motion Picture Industry Health Plan - Retired Employees
Fund
(a) Producer shall, for the period commencing August 1,
2021 to and including July 31, 2024, pay to the Industry Pension Plan
through its Administrator, as agent for transmittal to the Motion Picture
Industry Health Plan - Retired Employees Fund (subject to the
provisions for changes hereinafter set forth), thirty cents (30.0¢) for each
hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by such Producer on or after
August 1, 2021 to and including July 31, 2024 under the terms of this
Agreement, including "straight time" and "overtime" hours on any day
worked.
It is agreed and recommended that as a matter of
funding policy, the Directors of the Health Plan shall continue to
maintain the level of reserves in the Retired Employees Fund at eight (8)
months at all times during the term of the Agreement.
Commencing with the quarter ending September 30,
2021 and at the end of every subsequent calendar quarter during the term
of this Agreement, the consultants for the Health and Pension Plans shall
project the level of reserves in the Retired Employees Fund for the term
of the Agreement.
(b) When a minimum call is applicable and the employee
works less than the minimum call, then the minimum call shall
constitute time worked. Employees subject to this Agreement employed
for full weeks under guaranteed weekly salary schedules shall be
credited with not less than the hours guaranteed the employee under
such weekly salary schedule. In the event such employee works in
excess of such applicable number of hours guaranteed in such weekly
schedule, then additional contributions shall be made on such excess
hours worked.
- 28 -

--- PAGE 102 of 277 ---

(c) For the purposes of this provision, studio, nearby and
distant location employment under "on call" weekly schedules shall be
considered as follows:
(1) Partial week - twelve (12) hours per day (thirteen
(13) hours per day effective July 31, 2022; fourteen (14) hours per day
effective July 30, 2023);
(2) Five day week - sixty (60) hours per week (sixty-
five (65) hours per week effective July 31, 2022; seventy (70) hours per
week effective July 30, 2023);
(3) Six day week - seventy-two (72) hours per week
(seventy-seven (77) hours per week effective July 31, 2022; eighty-two
(82) hours per week effective July 30, 2023); and
(4) Seven day week - eighty-four (84) hours per week
(eighty-nine (89) hours per week effective July 31, 2022; ninety-four
(94) hours per week effective July 30, 2023).
For the sixth day not worked on distant location,
contributions to the Retired Employees Fund for "on call" employees
shall be based on seven (7) hours. For the seventh day not worked on
distant location, contributions to the Retired Employees Fund for "on
call" employees shall be based on eight (8) hours.
It is understood that the parties will establish
mechanisms at the Plan level to provide that when the Plans receive
contributions on behalf of "on call" employees from multiple Employers
for the same period, such Employers shall be entitled to a credit against
future contributions on a pro rata basis.
(d) The above rate of contribution of thirty cents ($.30) per
hour effective August 1, 2021 represents no increase over the rate of
contribution required for the period August 1, 2018 through July 31,
2021.
(e) The bargaining parties agree to recommend to the
Directors of the Motion Picture Industry Health Plan that the number of
years required to qualify for retiree health coverage in the Retired
Employees Fund shall increase, effective January 1, 2016, from fifteen
(15) qualified years to twenty (20) qualified years for participants who
have not earned at least one "Qualified Year" as of January 1, 2016.
(The definition of "Qualified Year," as used herein, is set forth in
Section 24 of Article I of the Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan
Restated 1993 Trust Agreement, revised January 2015.)
- 29 -

--- PAGE 103 of 277 ---

(f) During the period August 1, 2021 to and including July
31, 2024:
Except for (i) the Coordination of Benefits rules
adopted on March 28, 2011 and made retroactive to January 1, 2011,
which shall be maintained at the level in effect as of January 1, 2011,
and (ii) the usual, customary and reasonable (UCR) schedules, which
shall be maintained at the level in effect immediately following the
replacement of the INGENIX schedules in effect on August 1, 2009, all
other benefits (including dental and vision benefits) under the Retired
Employees Fund shall be maintained at the level in effect on August 1,
2009, so long as it is prudent to do so, in the following manner:
If the consultants project, taking into account a
reasonable amount of Post '60s income, that: (1) the reallocation of
wages and/or contributions from the Individual Account Plan as
provided in Article XII(b) above will not restore that level of reserves in
the Retired Employees Fund to eight (8) months during the term of this
Agreement; and (2) the level of reserves will fall below four (4) months
during the term of this Agreement, then employer contributions will be
increased to the amount and for such time as is necessary to create a four
(4) month reserve level for the maintained benefits.
(g) With respect to those employees who are not included
within a unit covered by a collective bargaining agreement but who are
members of a group the Producer has designated as eligible employees
in accordance with the requirements of the Industry Pension Plan and
who are participants in the Industry Pension Plan, Producer hereby
agrees that it shall likewise pay the above respective amounts for each
hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by such Producer on and
after August 1, 2021, as above defined.
(h) With respect to those employees who are members of a
private retirement plan and who are members of a group such Producer
designated in a sufficient written instrument to the Trustees of the Health
Plan as eligible for the benefits referred to in this Article XIV, such
Producer hereby agrees that it shall likewise pay the above respective
amounts for each hour worked by or guaranteed such employee by
Producer on and after August 1, 2021, as above defined.
(i) The money received by the Administrator of the
Industry Pension Plan from such payments, as above provided, shall be
kept separate and apart from any funds of the Industry Pension Plan, and
shall be paid to the Retired Employees Fund upon demand by such
Health Plan. Such Retired Employees Fund shall provide for such
health coverage and, under such conditions as the Trustees of such
Health Plan may determine to be appropriate, for the employees retired
- 30 -

--- PAGE 104 of 277 ---

under the Industry Pension Plan and the private retirement plans referred
to in Article XV of the "Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan."
Such money paid by Producer to the Administrator of
the Industry Pension Plan for transmittal shall not constitute nor be
deemed to be wages due to the individual employees nor shall said
money so paid into the Industry Pension Plan in any manner be liable for
or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities or torts of such employees.
(j) Effective August 1, 2021, for a dental plan, the
Producer shall pay into the Retired Employees Fund five and one-tenth
cents (5.1¢) for each hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by such
Producer on or after August 1, 2021 under the terms of this Agreement,
including "straight time" and "overtime" hours on any day worked. The
provisions of subparagraphs (b), (c) and (f) shall apply to this
subparagraph.
(k) Effective August 1, 2021, for a vision care plan, the
Producer shall pay into the Retired Employees Fund two cents (2.0¢) for
each hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by such Producer on or
after August 1, 2021 under the terms of this Agreement, including
"straight time" and "overtime" hours for any day worked. The
provisions of subparagraphs (b), (c) and (f) shall apply to this
subparagraph.
(l) At least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of this
Agreement, the parties will meet to determine the impact of
national/state health care reform and will negotiate new health care
provisions accordingly.
XV. Producer Retirement Plans
(a) Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement or of
any other agreement between Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. and the
IATSE and/or any West Coast Local of the IATSE, Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer, Inc. shall not be required to offer employment to or employ any
person subject to this Agreement who shall have reached his normal
retirement date and shall have retired under the provisions of the
Retirement Plan for employees of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc.
(b) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement or of
any other agreement between Technicolor, Inc. and the IATSE and/or
any West Coast Local of the IATSE, Technicolor, Inc. shall not be
required to offer employment to or employ any person subject to this
Agreement who shall have reached his normal retirement date under the
provisions of the Retirement Plan for employees of Technicolor, Inc.
- 31 -

--- PAGE 105 of 277 ---

(c) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement or of
any other agreement between Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation
and the IATSE and/or any West Coast Local of the IATSE, Twentieth
Century-Fox Film Corporation shall not be required to offer employment
to or employ any person subject to this Agreement who shall have
reached his normal retirement date under the provisions of the
Retirement Plan for employees of Twentieth Century-Fox Film
Corporation and certain subsidiaries.
XVI. Report of Locations and Production Schedules
In addition to any notice required by Local Agreements, the
Producer agrees to notify the IATSE of all distant and nearby locations,
by telephone or otherwise. Such notifications shall be given at least
forty-eight (48) hours before departure time and shall include
information as to the number of employees, and their classifications,
scheduled to go on said location, and also information concerning
housing facilities and any unusual working and/or climatic conditions
that may be anticipated.
A copy of an advance production schedule will be sent to the
IATSE.
XVIA. Project Information Sheet
The Producer shall provide written notice to the IATSE
General Office with the following information, if known (or may submit
the information, if known, in the form of a Project Information Sheet,
attached as "Exhibit B" to this Agreement) for each theatrical motion
picture, television motion picture and covered New Media production on
which employees are employed under this Agreement no later than two
(2) weeks after opening a production office for such motion picture or
production.
Such notice shall contain at least the following information,
if known:
(a) Project Title;
(b) Signatory Employer;
(c) Production Compan(ies), if different from Signatory
Producer;
(d) Project type (feature, television, direct-to-video/DVD
or New Media);
- 32 -

--- PAGE 106 of 277 ---

(e) Applicable Special Conditions sideletter or New Media
sideletter, if any;
(f) Whether the covered New Media production is a "Mid-
Budget SVOD" Program covered by the Sideletter re: Productions Made
for New Media in the Basic Agreement;
(g) Applicable "High Budget SVOD" budget tier and
subscriber tier for a "High Budget SVOD" Program covered by the
Sideletter re: Productions Made for New Media;
(h) Number of episodes in the initial order;
(i) Production office address and phone number;
(j) Line Producer/UPM/Labor Relations contact(s) with
phone number(s) and email address(es);
(k) Payroll service, if applicable.
For episodic series, it is understood and agreed that the
foregoing requirement is satisfied by providing a notice (or Project
Information Sheet) at the commencement of production of the first
season of such episodic series.
For productions on which employees covered by this
Agreement and/or the Area Standards Agreement are employed, it is
understood and agreed that only one (1) combined notice or Project
Information Sheet need be submitted.
This provision shall not apply when employees are hired
under this Agreement to work outside the United States.
There shall be no penalty for inadvertent failure to comply
with this provision.
XVII. Meaning of Term "Motion Picture"
It is the mutual understanding and agreement of the parties
hereto that the term "motion picture," as used in this collective
bargaining agreement and in all prior Basic Agreements between the
parties, means and includes and has always meant and included motion
pictures, whether made on or by film, tape or otherwise, and whether
produced by means of motion picture cameras, electronic cameras or
devices, or any other combination of the foregoing, or any other means,
methods or devices now used or which may hereafter be adopted.
- 33 -

--- PAGE 107 of 277 ---

XVIII. Pre '60 Theatrical Pictures; Pay Television
(a) The exhibition of any motion picture by television for
which a charge is paid by or assessed to or collected from the viewing
audience, including subscription, telemeter, or any other method
whereby a charge is paid by the viewing audience for the right to view
such motion picture, is herein referred to as "pay television."
A "free television" picture is a motion picture initially
released on television, other than pay television.
As to all motion pictures, it is recognized and
acknowledged that the Producer has the unrestricted right to use, exhibit
and market the same for any purpose, in any manner and by any method
now known or hereafter developed, and that the Producer does not
hereby relinquish or surrender any of its property rights therein. Except
as otherwise specifically provided herein, the exhibition of a motion
picture by pay television is theatrical exhibition and is merely an
extension or substitute for the theatrical box office.
(b) It is expressly understood and agreed that the IATSE
and its Locals do not and will not make any claim for compensation or
other payments with respect to the exhibition on any form of television
(whether pay television or free television) of theatrical motion pictures,
the principal photography of which commenced prior to January 31,
1960, and that, with respect to theatrical motion pictures, the principal
photography of which commenced on or after such date, Producer's only
obligation, with respect to the exhibition of such pictures on free
television, is to make the payments as referred to in Article XIX, entitled
"Post '60 Theatrical Motion Pictures," or Article XXVIIIA., entitled
"Special Residual Formula For Theatrical Motion Pictures Licensed to
Free Television, Supplemental Markets and/or New Media for which a
Minimum Guarantee or Non-Returnable Advance is Payable," and with
respect to motion pictures, the principal photography of which
commenced on or after August 1, 2021, Producer's obligations shall be
those contained in this Basic Agreement.
XIX. Post '60 Theatrical Motion Pictures
(a) Theatrical motion pictures produced by Producer with
employees employed by Producer under a Basic Agreement, the
principal photography of which commenced on or after February 1,
1960, shall be governed by the following:
Theatrical motion pictures produced by Producer with
employees employed by Producer under the Basic Agreement of 1961
between these parties, the principal photography of which commenced
- 34 -

--- PAGE 108 of 277 ---

in the period between February 1, 1960 and January 31, 1967, both dates
inclusive, which motion pictures are released to free television, shall be
governed by Article XIX of such Basic Agreement of 1961; provided,
however, that as to such motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between February 1, 1965 and January
31, 1967, both dates inclusive, Section 10 of the Basic Agreement of
1965 shall apply.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between February 1, 1967 and January
31, 1969, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of
1967.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between February 1, 1969 and January
31, 1973, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of
1969.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between February 1, 1973 and January
31, 1976, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of
1973.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between February 1, 1976 and July 31,
1979, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 1976.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 1979 and July 31,
1982, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 1979
and the Amendment thereto.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 1982 and July 31,
1985, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 1982.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 1985 and July 31,
1988, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 1985.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 1988 and July 31,
1990, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 1988.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 1990 and July 31,
1993, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 1990.
- 35 -

--- PAGE 109 of 277 ---

Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 1993 and July 31,
1996, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 1993.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 1996 and July 31,
2000, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 1996.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 2000 and July 31,
2003, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 2000.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 2003 and July 31,
2006, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 2003.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 2006 and July 31,
2009, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 2006.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 2009 and July 31,
2012, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 2009.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 2012 and July 31,
2015, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 2012.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 2015 and July 31,
2018, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 2015.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commenced in the period between August 1, 2018 and July 31,
2021, shall be governed by Article XIX of the Basic Agreement of 2018.
Theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of
which commences in the period between August 1, 2021 and July 31,
2024, shall be governed by Article XIX of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the wording of the second paragraph
of paragraph (a) of Article XIX of the 1973 Basic Agreement, it was the
intention and understanding of the parties that the allocation of the
percentage payments as provided for in paragraph (b) of said Article
XIX of the 1973 Basic Agreement was to apply to accountable receipts
received by Producer between February 1, 1973 and February 1, 1976
derived from the distribution on free television of all applicable
theatrical motion pictures, the principal photography of which
- 36 -

--- PAGE 110 of 277 ---

commenced after January 31, 1960, regardless of which Basic
Agreement applies. Because of such wording, however, a Producer may
have allocated certain "percentage payments" in the proportion of
seventy-five percent (75%) to the Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan
and twenty-five percent (25%) to the Motion Picture Health and Welfare
Fund, instead of fifty percent (50%) to the Pension Plan and fifty percent
(50%) to the Motion Picture Industry Retiree Health and Welfare Fund.
If the Producer did so allocate "percentage payments," such Producer
shall insofar as it is concerned be deemed to have complied with its
obligations to the applicable provisions of the 1973 Basic Agreement,
but the Pension Plan shall refund to the Retiree Health and Welfare Fund
one-third (1/3) of the seventy-five percent (75%) so allocated to the
Pension Plan, and the Welfare Fund shall refund to the Retiree Health
and Welfare Fund the whole of the twenty-five percent (25%) so
allocated to the Welfare Fund.
The following provisions of this Article XIX relate and
apply only to theatrical motion pictures produced by Producer with
employees employed by Producer under this Agreement,6 the principal
photography of which commenced after July 31, 2021, which motion
pictures for the first time are, either during the term hereof or at any time
thereafter, released to free television. (Such motion pictures are referred
to in this Article as the "motion picture" or "motion pictures.") In
addition, the allocation of percentage payments provided for in
subparagraph (b) of this Article XIX shall apply to all monies payable
on and after August 1, 2021 for the distribution on free television of all
motion pictures referred to in this subparagraph (a), regardless of which
Agreement governs.
(b) (1) As to each such motion picture (other than a
motion picture included in a "qualifying transaction" described in Article
XXVIIIA.), the Producer will pay nine percent (9%), hereinafter referred
to as the "percentage payment," of the Producer's accountable receipts
from the distribution of such motion picture on free television, computed
as hereinafter provided, to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans, to be allocated as follows:
(i) First, to the defined benefit plan to fund the
cost of: (A) the two (2) additional checks (i.e., a 13th and 14th check)
which were granted to all employees who retired prior to August 1, 2000
pursuant to the provisions of Article XIII(f)(2) of the 2000 Producer-
I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement with any unamortized amounts remaining as
6 Employees employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers'
Room Assistants shall not be considered "employees employed by Producer under this
Agreement" for purposes of subparagraph (a) of this Article XIX. Employees employed under
the Local #700 Amendment Agreement shall not be considered "employees employed by
Producer under this Agreement" for any purpose under this Article XIX.
- 37 -

--- PAGE 111 of 277 ---

of December 31, 2016 amortized over fifteen (15) years; (B) the two
additional checks (i.e., a 13th and 14th check) which were granted to all
employees who retired prior to August 1, 2003 pursuant to the
provisions of Article XIII(f)(2) of the 2003 Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic
Agreement with any unamortized amounts remaining as of December
31, 2016 amortized over fifteen (15) years; (C) the two additional checks
(i.e., a 13th and 14th check) which were granted to all employees who
retired prior to August 1, 2006 pursuant to the provisions of Article
XIII(f)(2) of the 2006 Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement with any
unamortized amounts remaining as of December 31, 2016 amortized
over fifteen (15) years; and (D) the two additional checks (i.e., a 13th
and 14th check) which were granted to all employees who retired on or
before August 1, 2009 pursuant to the provisions of Article XIII(f) of the
2009 Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement with any unamortized
amounts remaining as of December 31, 2016 amortized over fifteen (15)
years.
(ii) Then, next, to the Retired Employees Fund
to the extent needed to fund an eight (8) month reserve.
(iii) Then, next, to the defined benefit plan to
fund the cost of: (A) the two additional checks (i.e., a 13th and 14th
check), amortized over the fifteen (15) year period commencing January
1, 2017, granted in 2017 to all employees who retired on or before
August 1, 2009 pursuant to the provisions of Article XIII.(f)(2) of the
2015 Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement; (B) the two additional
checks (i.e., a 13th and 14th check) granted to all employees who retired
on or before August 1, 2009 pursuant to the provisions of Article
XIII.(f)(2) of the 2018 Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement, amortized
over the fifteen (15) year period commencing January 1, 2017; and (C)
the two additional checks (i.e., a 13th and 14th check), or one additional
check (a 13th check), granted during the term of this Agreement to all
employees who retired on or before August 1, 2009 pursuant to the
provisions of Article XIII.(f)(2) of the 2021 Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic
Agreement, amortized over the fifteen (15) year period commencing
January 1, 2017.
(iv) Then, next, to the Active Employees Fund to
the extent needed to fund a six (6) month reserve.
(v) Then, next, to the defined benefit pension
plan to the extent that Supplemental Markets and New Media monies are
insufficient to fund the 23% increase in the defined benefit plan granted
to active employees pursuant to the provisions of Article XIII(f)(1)(i) of
the 2000 Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement, the 15% increase in the
defined benefit plan granted to active employees pursuant to the
provisions of Article XIII(f)(1) of the 2003 Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic
Agreement and the 10% increase in the defined benefit plan granted to
- 38 -

--- PAGE 112 of 277 ---

active employees pursuant to the provisions of Article XIII.(f)(1) of the
2006 Producer-I.A.T.S.E Basic Agreement.
(vi) Then, next, to the Active Employees Fund
of the Health Plan.
(vii) Then, next, to the extent that the level of
reserves in the Retired Employees Fund exceeds twenty (20) months,
and to the extent that the level of reserves in the Active Employees Fund
exceeds twelve (12) months, reserves in excess of such amounts shall be
reallocated as provided in Article XIIIA.(c)(2).
On an annual basis during the term of this
Agreement, the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers,
the IATSE and the Chairman of the Basic Crafts (on behalf of the Basic
Crafts Group) shall jointly review this allocation in conjunction with the
allocation to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans of
Supplemental Markets payments. Any agreement on any reallocation of
such monies mutually agreed upon by all of these parties shall become a
part of this Agreement. The term "Basic Crafts Group," as used herein,
refers to those unions noted in this Article XIX.(e).
Exhibit A of each of the Pension Plan, Individual
Account Plan and Health Plan (and the mechanical issues addressed
therein) shall be amended to express the agreements of the bargaining
parties with respect to the foregoing allocation.
(2) The term "Producer's gross," as used herein,
means the worldwide total gross receipts of Producer derived from the
distributor of such motion picture (who may be the Producer or a
distributor licensed by the Producer) from licensing the right to exhibit
the motion picture on free television. If the distributor of the motion
picture does not distribute the motion picture directly to free television,
but employs a sub-distributor to so distribute the motion picture, then the
"Producer's gross" shall be the worldwide total gross receipts derived
from such sub-distributor from licensing the right to exhibit the motion
picture on free television. In case of an outright sale of the free
television distribution rights for the entire world, or any territory or
country, the income derived by the seller from such sale, but not the
income realized by the purchaser or licensee of such rights, shall be the
"Producer's gross." If any such outright sale shall include free television
exhibition rights, and other rights, then (but only for the purpose of the
computation required hereunder) the Producer shall allocate to the free
television exhibition rights a fair and reasonable portion of the sales
price which shall, for the purpose hereof, be the "Producer's gross." In
reaching such determination, Producer may consider the current market
value of free television exhibition rights in comparable motion pictures.
If the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans shall contend
- 39 -

--- PAGE 113 of 277 ---

that the amount so allocated was not fair and reasonable, such claim may
be determined by submission to arbitration as herein provided and, in the
event the Board of Arbitration shall find that such allocation was not
reasonable and fair, it shall determine the fair and reasonable amount to
be so allocated. If the outright sale includes free television distribution
rights to more than one motion picture, Producer shall likewise allocate
to each motion picture a fair and reasonable portion of the sales price of
the free television rights and, if the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans contend that such allocation is not fair and reasonable, the
question may be determined by submission to arbitration as above
provided. If the Board of Arbitration shall find that such allocation was
not fair and reasonable, it shall determine the fair and reasonable amount
to be so allocated to each motion picture. The price received on the
outright sale of only free television distribution rights in a single motion
picture shall not be subject to arbitration. Sums paid to any advertising
agency in connection with any exhibition of a motion picture on free
television shall not be included in Producer's gross.
(3) The term "accountable receipts," as used herein,
means the balance of the Producer's gross after deducting an arbitrary
forty percent (40%) of the Producer's gross for distribution fees and
expenses; except that in the case of an outright sale of free television
distribution rights, there shall be deducted only an arbitrary ten percent
(10%) of the Producer's gross for sales commissions and expenses of
sale.
(4) Producer's obligation shall accrue hereunder only
after accountable receipts are received by the Producer, but as to foreign
receipts, such obligation shall accrue only when such receipts can be
freely converted to U.S. dollars and are remitted to the United States
and, until such time, no frozen foreign receipts shall be included in
accountable receipts. Payments of amounts accruing hereunder shall be
made quarterly on the basis of quarterly statements, as hereinafter
provided. Frozen foreign receipts from free television shall be deemed
to be released on a first-in first-out basis, unless the authorities of the
foreign country involved designate a specific period that would render
such basis inapplicable. Such released funds shall be allocated between
the motion picture and other motion pictures distributed by the
distributor in the same ratio that receipts derived from the distribution of
the motion picture on free television within the foreign country bear to
the total receipts derived from the distribution of the motion picture and
all other motion pictures on free television within the foreign country,
during the applicable period, unless the authorities of the foreign country
involved require another method of allocation, in which case such other
method shall be used. Foreign receipts shall be accounted for in U.S.
dollars at the rate of exchange at which such receipts are actually
converted and remitted and, should any discounts, taxes, duties or
charges be imposed in connection with the receipt or remittance of
- 40 -

--- PAGE 114 of 277 ---

foreign funds, only so much of such funds as remain thereafter shall be
included in accountable receipts. Producer shall not be responsible for
loss or diminution of foreign receipts as a result of any matter or thing
not reasonably within the control of the Producer. The Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans shall be bound by any arrangements
made in good faith by the Producer, or for its account, with respect to
the deposit or remittance of foreign revenue. Frozen foreign receipts
shall not be considered trust funds and the Producer may freely
commingle the same with other funds of the Producer. No sums
received by way of deposits or security need be included in Producer's
gross until earned, but when the Producer is paid a non-returnable
advance by a distributor, such advance shall be included in the
Producer's gross.
(5) If any license or outright sale of exhibition rights
to the motion picture on free television includes as a part thereof any
filmed commercial or advertising material, the Producer shall be
permitted to allocate a reasonable amount (in accordance with then
current standard charges in the industry) to such commercial or
advertising material and the amount so allocated shall not be included in
Producer's gross hereunder.
(6) Such payments made hereunder to the Motion
Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans are not and shall not in any
manner be construed to be wages due to any individual employee, nor in
any manner be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities or
torts of any employee.
(7) Within a reasonable time after the close of the
calendar or fiscal quarter, but not exceeding sixty (60) calendar days,
Producer will furnish to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health
Plans written reports, as prescribed by the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans, showing the Producer's gross received from
the sale, lease, license and distribution (whether by Producer or a
distributor) of each such motion picture on free television. Such reports
shall be furnished quarterly during each fiscal or calendar year of the
Producer. Concurrently with the furnishing of each such report, the
Producer will make the payments shown to be due by such report. All
required payments shall be made by check payable to the order of and
delivered to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans.
Each such quarterly statement shall designate the title of the motion
picture involved. On request, the Producer shall make available to the
Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans all accounting
statements delivered by a distributor to the Producer, but only insofar as
such statements relate to the Producer's gross. The Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans shall have the right, at reasonable
times, to examine the books and records of Producer insofar as they
relate to the Producer's gross. Producer shall not be required to furnish
- 41 -

--- PAGE 115 of 277 ---

any quarterly statement hereunder with respect to the motion picture
prior to Producer's receipt of any Producer's gross with respect to the
motion picture, or for any quarterly period during which no Producer's
gross from the motion picture is received by the Producer.
If the Producer shall fail to make any payment
provided for in this Article when and as the same becomes due and
payable, it shall bear interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month
on the unpaid balance thereof commencing to accrue ten (10) business
days after notice in writing to Producer from the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans of such delinquency.
(8) If the Producer shall sell, assign, transfer or
otherwise dispose of the distribution rights to such motion picture on
free television, or shall license the distribution rights to the motion
picture on free television, Producer shall obtain from the buyer, licensee
or distributor a separate agreement, made expressly for the benefit of the
Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans, as herein provided,
requiring such buyer, licensee or distributor to comply with the
provisions of this Article XIX. Such agreement shall be in substantially
the following form:
"The undersigned, __________________________________
(insert name of buyer, licensee or distributor)
herein for convenience referred to as the "Buyer," hereby
agrees with _______________________________________
(insert name of Producer)
that all theatrical motion pictures covered by this Agreement
are subject to the provisions of Article XIX of the "Producer-
I.A.T.S.E. and M.P.T.A.A.C. Basic Agreement of 2021"
relating to payments to the Motion Picture Industry Pension
and Health Plans on release of a theatrical motion picture to
free television; and the said buyer hereby agrees, expressly
for the benefit of the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans, to abide by and perform the provisions of
Article XIX of said Basic Agreement and make said
payments required thereby. It is expressly understood that
the rights of Buyer to exhibit or license the exhibition of such
motion pictures on free television shall be subject to and
conditioned upon the payment to the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans as provided in Article XIX of said
Basic Agreement, and it is agreed that said Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans shall be respectively
entitled to injunctive relief and damages against Buyer in the
event such respective payments are not made.
- 42 -

--- PAGE 116 of 277 ---

"The undersigned agrees to keep or have access to complete
records showing the income derived from the distribution of
such motion pictures on free television within the entire
territory for which Buyer is granted such rights and the
Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans shall have
the right at all reasonable times to inspect such records. The
undersigned shall give the Motion Picture Industry Pension
and Health Plans prompt written notice of the date on which
each motion picture covered hereby is first telecast on free
television. An inadvertent failure to comply with said
requirement of notice shall not constitute a default by the
undersigned hereunder, provided such failure is cured
promptly after notice thereof from the Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans."
Producer agrees to give notice to the Motion
Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans within thirty (30) days of each
sale, transfer or license of the distribution rights to such a motion picture
on free television, with the name and address of the buyer, assignee or
distributor, and to deliver to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans an executed copy of each assumption agreement entered
into by the Producer. An inadvertent failure on the part of the Producer
to comply with any of the provisions of this subparagraph (8) shall in no
event constitute a default by the Producer hereunder or a breach of this
Agreement, provided that such failure is cured promptly after notice
thereof from the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans.
Upon delivery of such assumption agreement, and
on condition that the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans
approve in writing the financial responsibility of the buyer, Producer, or
any subsequent owner obtaining the execution of such an assumption
agreement, shall not be further liable to the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans for the keeping of any such records or the
required payments insofar as they relate to the broadcast of the motion
picture on free television, and the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans agrees to look exclusively to the party last executing such
an assumption agreement for the keeping of such records and payments.
(9) With respect to such motion picture, Producer
agrees either to:
(i) include in any chattel mortgage, pledge or
other lien or security agreement covering the motion picture, a provision
made expressly for the benefit of the Motion Picture Industry Pension
and Health Plans to the effect that the chattel mortgagee, pledgee, lien or
security holder agrees that if such mortgage, pledge, lien or security
agreement is foreclosed, and such mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security
holder thereby obtains title to the motion picture and subsequently
- 43 -

--- PAGE 117 of 277 ---

exhibits the motion picture on free television, then in such event, after
such mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security holder has recouped its loan so
secured, plus interest and all costs and expenses incident to foreclosure,
such mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security holder will be bound by the
provisions of this Article XIX with respect to payments to the Motion
Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans thereafter becoming due and
payable hereunder; provided, however, that nothing herein contained
shall prevent such mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security holder who has
acquired title to the motion picture from thereafter making a sale of the
motion picture to a third party free and clear of any limitations or
obligations whatsoever. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection
(i), the rights of the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans
shall be subordinate to the rights of such mortgagee, pledgee, lien or
security holder; or
(ii) in the alternative, be bound by the
provisions of this Article XIX with respect to payments to the Motion
Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans, if any, due after such
foreclosure shall have been made. In the event Producer elects this
alternative, the provisions of subsection (i) above shall be inapplicable,
and if the provisions referred to in subsection (i) above are not included
in any such chattel mortgage, pledge, lien or security agreement,
Producer shall be deemed to have elected the alternative provided for in
this subsection (ii).
In the event of a foreclosure referred to in
subsection (i) above, should the Producer distribute the motion picture
for such mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security holder, Producer shall be
bound during the period of such distribution by the provisions of this
Article XIX with respect to payments due hereunder, to the same extent
as the mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security holder under subsection (i)
above. Any such payments made by the Producer as the distributor shall
be credited against any obligation of the mortgagee, pledgee, lien or
security holder that may be due or become due to the Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans under subsection (i) above; it being
understood that the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans
shall be entitled to such respective payments but once.
The foregoing provisions of this subparagraph (9)
shall not apply to any motion picture subject to any security instrument
in existence on January 31, 1965.
(10) If, after January 31, 1976, the Producer enters into
a contract with a so-called "independent producer" for the production
and financing of a theatrical motion picture and the distribution thereof
by the Producer or for the furnishing of all the employees covered
hereunder who are to be used in such theatrical motion picture (such
contract being hereinafter referred to as an "independent contract"),
- 44 -

--- PAGE 118 of 277 ---

Producer will include in such independent contract an agreement on the
part of the independent producer, expressly for the benefit of the Motion
Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans, that the independent
producer will pay, on behalf of Producer, in the manner herein provided,
the amounts, if any, required to be paid under the provisions of this
Article XIX with respect to such motion picture. If such agreement on
the part of the independent producer be not included in any independent
contract prior to the exhibition of the motion picture on free television,
the Producer shall be liable and responsible for the payments, if any,
required to be made under the provisions of this Article XIX with
respect to such motion picture. If such agreement on the part of the
independent producer is included in the independent contract prior to
exhibition of the motion picture on free television, then the Producer
shall not be liable or responsible in any manner or to any extent with
respect to the motion picture under the provisions of this Article XIX.
The Producer will notify the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health
Plans of any and all such independent contracts entered into by the
Producer.
(c) Notwithstanding any provision in subparagraph (b)
above to the contrary, the following shall govern the computation and
remittance of the "percentage payment" as that term is defined in
subparagraph (b) above:
(1) Definitions. For purposes of this subparagraph (c)
and for no other purpose, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth below:
(i) "Production" or "produce" shall include both
production and pre-production functions, but not post-production or
distribution functions.
(ii) "Prorate" or "proration" shall mean the
computation of the percentage payment by multiplying nine percent
(9%) of accountable receipts by a fraction whose numerator consists of
the total below-the-line labor cost of individuals subject to the Basic
Agreement7 or hired from the jurisdiction of the union locals referred to
7 Individuals employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and
Writers' Room Assistants) shall be considered "individuals subject to the Basic Agreement" and
"employees employed by Producer under this Agreement" for purposes of subparagraph (c) and
subparagraphs (f)(2)(v)(B)(1) and (2) of this Article XIX only and for no other purpose.
Accordingly, when Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder, the salaries of all individuals
employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Amendment
Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers' Room
Assistants) shall be included in both the numerator and the denominator of the fraction referred
to in subparagraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (f)(2)(v)(B)(1) of this Article XIX. For clarification, the
salaries of all individuals employed under the Local #871 Agreement covering Script
Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants shall not be included in the numerator or the
denominator when the Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder.
- 45 -

--- PAGE 119 of 277 ---

in subparagraph (e) below working on the picture (whether in production
or post-production but excluding distribution -- distribution, for the
purposes of this Article, shall include all laboratory work other than that
performed by employees charged directly to a picture) and whose
denominator consists of the total below-the-line labor cost of all
individuals working on the picture in job categories referred to either in
this Basic Agreement or in the other collective bargaining agreements
between Producer and the West Coast Studio Locals or between
Producer and the unions referred to in subparagraph (e) below (whether
in production or post-production but excluding distribution --
distribution, for the purposes of this Article, shall include all laboratory
work other than that performed by employees charged directly to a
picture).
(iii) "Individuals subject to the Basic
Agreement" and "employees employed by Producer under this
Agreement"7 include all persons working on the motion picture under
the terms of the Basic Agreement or hired from the jurisdiction of union
locals referred to in subparagraph (e) below who are hired to perform
services in Los Angeles or hired in Los Angeles to perform services at a
distant location whether hired by a Producer itself or employed
indirectly by a Producer through loan-outs, payroll companies or
comparable employing agents; provided, however, that individuals not
specifically charged to the motion picture or who are included in general
overhead and individuals such as projectionists, drivers and publicists
engaged primarily in off-location services during the production of the
motion picture are not included in the terms "made with two or more
individuals subject to the Basic Agreement" or "Los Angeles production
crew" as those terms are used in subparagraph (c)(3) below and are not
included in either the numerator or denominator of the proration fraction
described above.
(iv) "Foreign" means any theatrical motion
picture for which twenty percent (20%) or more of the shooting days of
principal photography takes place in a country other than the United
States, its territories or Canada.
(v) "Domestic" means any theatrical motion
picture which is not foreign.
(vi) "Los Angeles production crew," for
purposes of determining whether percentage payments on domestic
pictures may be prorated, shall mean persons hired from the jurisdiction
of the IATSE West Coast Studio Locals8 or hired from the jurisdiction
8 Individuals employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and
Writers' Room Assistants) shall be considered part of the "Los Angeles production crew" for
purposes of this subparagraph (c) only and not for any other purpose.
- 46 -

--- PAGE 120 of 277 ---

of the union locals referred to in subparagraph (e) below, employed by
the Producer in production.
(vii) "Entire production crew," as such term is
used herein, shall mean all individuals in job categories referred to either
in this Basic Agreement or in the other collective bargaining agreements
between Producer and the West Coast Studio Locals or between
Producer and the unions referred to in subparagraph (e) below employed
by the Producer on the production of the motion picture in question.
(viii) "Other collective bargaining agreements
between Producer and the West Coast Studio Locals" means only those
Local Agreements subject to this Basic Agreement.
(2) Foreign Pictures. Percentage payments shall be
made on a prorated basis for any foreign picture made with two or more
individuals subject to the Basic Agreement.
(3) Domestic Pictures.
(i) If two or more individuals subject to the
Basic Agreement are employed on a domestic picture, it will be subject
to liability for percentage payments to the extent hereinafter provided.
(ii) Except as provided in subparagraph
(c)(3)(iii) below, percentage payments on domestic pictures will be nine
percent (9%) of accountable receipts.
(iii) (A) Percentage payments on a domestic
picture shall be made on a prorated basis if a majority of the shooting
days of principal photography on the motion picture occurred outside of
the following states - Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho,
Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Washington and
Wyoming. In the event that the IATSE determines that the proration
formula set forth in this subsection (A) adversely affects Post '60s
revenues, it shall have the right to terminate same, in which case
proration on domestic pictures shall be governed by the provisions of
subsection (B) below.
(B) Percentage payments on domestic
pictures not covered by subsection (A) above or which commence
principal photography more than one hundred twenty (120) days after
the IATSE terminates the provisions of subsection (A) above shall be
made on a prorated basis if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The Los Angeles production
crew, as defined above, consists of twenty-nine (29) or fewer individuals
(no more than twenty-two (22) of whom may be hired from the
- 47 -

--- PAGE 121 of 277 ---

jurisdiction of the IATSE West Coast Studio Locals), and the salaries
paid to those twenty-nine (29) or fewer individuals constitute less than
fifty percent (50%) of the salaries of the entire production crew. In
determining whether twenty-nine (29) or fewer individuals are employed
on the picture, the following shall be excluded: make-up artists,
hairdressers and costumers who are specifically required to be furnished
by the Producer in accordance with the personal service contract of an
actor and those individuals engaged in post-production or distribution
functions, including, but not limited to, editing and looping regardless of
where or when those functions are performed; and
(2) A majority of the shooting days
of principal photography on the motion picture occurred outside of the
following states -- Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho,
Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Washington and
Wyoming.
(iv) As to any domestic picture on which the
Producer intends to make percentage payments on a prorated basis, an
Application to Prorate shall be delivered by the Producer to the
Administrator of the Pension and Health Plans on or before the date that
the first percentage payment is due to the Plans from Producer. Said
Application shall contain the following information: If the right to
prorate is based upon the provisions of subparagraph (c)(3)(iii)(A)
above, the aggregate salaries paid to the Los Angeles production crew
and the aggregate salaries paid to the entire production crew; the number
of shooting days of principal photography occurring in the states listed
in subparagraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) above; the total other shooting days and
the states in which said other shooting days occurred. If the right to
prorate is based upon the provisions of subparagraph (c)(3)(iii)(B)
above, the number of individuals on the Los Angeles production crew;
the number of such individuals who were hired from the jurisdiction of
the IATSE West Coast Studio Locals; the number and job classifications
of those individuals excluded pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph
(c)(3)(iii)(B)(1) above; the aggregate salaries paid to the Los Angeles
production crew and the aggregate salaries paid to the entire production
crew; the number of shooting days of principal photography occurring in
the states listed in subparagraph (c)(3)(iii)(B)(2) above; the total other
shooting days and the states in which said other shooting days occurred.
If an Application to Prorate is submitted later than the dates specified
above, it will nonetheless be deemed granted if the identified picture
meets said criteria; provided, however, that, if he deems it necessary, the
Administrator of the Pension and Health Plans may require a Producer
submitting a late Application to Prorate to allow a special audit of the
percentage payments due and the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans shall be reimbursed by the Producer for all reasonable fees
and expenses incurred by the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans in performing said audit.
- 48 -

--- PAGE 122 of 277 ---

(d) (1) Producer will furnish to the Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans written reports showing the
Producer's gross received from the sale, lease, license and distribution
(whether by Producer or a distributor) on free television of each motion
picture subject to the provisions of this Article. In the written reports
filed with the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans, the
Producer shall indicate whether it is prorating on each picture being
reported and, if so, what proration percentage is being applied and the
basis for the Producer's right to prorate -- i.e., whether proration is being
applied pursuant to subparagraph (c)(2) or pursuant to subparagraph
(c)(3)(iii)(A) or pursuant to subparagraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) above. Such
reports shall be furnished quarterly during each fiscal or calendar quarter
of the Producer. Concurrently with the furnishing of each such report,
the Producer will make the payments shown to be due by such report.
All required payments shall be made by check payable to the order of
and delivered to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans.
Each such quarterly statement shall designate the title of the motion
picture involved. On request, the Producer shall make available to the
Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans all accounting
statements delivered by a distributor to the Producer, but only insofar as
such statements relate to the Producer's gross. The Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans shall have the right, at reasonable
times, to examine the books and records of Producer insofar as they
relate to the Producer's gross and -- as to any motion picture for which
Producer assumes as Buyer the obligation to make percentage payments
pursuant to subparagraph (b)(8) above -- the documents reflecting or
effectuating the purchase; provided that, with respect to these latter
documents, the Producer may require the persons examining them to
execute reasonable agreements to respect their confidentiality. Producer
shall not be required to furnish any quarterly statement hereunder with
respect to the motion picture prior to Producer's receipt of any
Producer's gross with respect to the motion picture, or for any quarterly
period during which no Producer's gross from the motion picture is
received by the Producer.
(2) For each motion picture produced by Producer
which the Producer plans to prorate (whether proration is being applied
pursuant to subparagraph (c)(2) or pursuant to subparagraph (c)(3)
above) for three (3) years after either the date of the first quarterly report
showing a percentage payment on such motion picture or the receipt by
the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans of the Producer's
written request for audit of the percentage payments due, Producer shall
maintain and make available to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans and their auditors the following information: the names of
the employees on the Los Angeles production crew; the names of the
employees on the entire production crew; the names of all individuals
subject to the Basic Agreement working on the motion picture (whether
in pre-production, production or post-production functions); the names
- 49 -

--- PAGE 123 of 277 ---

of all individuals who were not subject to the Basic Agreement but who
worked on the motion picture in job categories referred to either in this
Basic Agreement or in the other collective bargaining agreements
between Producer and the West Coast Studio Locals or between
Producer and the unions referred to in subparagraph (e) below; the total
below-the-line labor costs of individuals subject to the Basic Agreement
(whether in pre-production, production or post-production functions);
and the total below-the-line labor costs of all individuals working on the
motion picture in job categories referred to either in this Basic
Agreement or in the other collective bargaining agreements between
Producer and the West Coast Studio Locals or between Producer and the
unions referred to in subparagraph (e) below.
(3) As to any motion picture subject to subparagraph
(c) above for which Producer assumes the obligation to make percentage
payments pursuant to subparagraph (b)(8) above, if Producer wishes to
prorate its percentage payments for such motion picture, it shall obtain
the records provided for in subparagraph (d)(2) above from the producer
of such motion picture.
(e) The provisions of this Article XIX were negotiated by
the following unions for the benefit of the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans:
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees
and Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts of
the United States, its Territories and Canada; Studio
Transportation Drivers, Local 399 of the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters; Local 40 of the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers; Local 724 of the
International Hod Carriers, Building and Common Laborers
Union; Local 755 of the Operative Plasterers and Cement
Masons International Association of United States and
Canada; and United Association of Journeymen and
Apprentices of the Plumbing and Piping Industry of United
States and Canada, Local 78.
Any reference in any other collective bargaining
agreement (whether with one of the above unions or any other union or
guild) to a "percentage payment" to the Motion Picture Industry Pension
and Health Plans for the exhibition on free television of Post '60
Theatrical Motion Pictures is, and shall be deemed to be, a reference to
the "percentage payment" as set forth in this Article XIX, which amount
is the only amount, in the aggregate, which the Producer and all such
unions have agreed upon for the benefit of the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans.
- 50 -

--- PAGE 124 of 277 ---

The compliance by Producer with the conditions set
forth in this Article XIX likewise constitutes compliance as to all the
unions.
(f) The following provisions shall apply to "feature length
primarily animated motion pictures," as defined herein, produced by
Producer with employees employed by Producer under this Agreement,9
which motion pictures for the first time are, either during the term hereof
or at any time thereafter, released to free television.
(1) Definition
A "feature length primarily animated motion
picture" refers to any motion picture produced for theatrical exhibition
which consists primarily or exclusively of animated footage and has a
continuous running time of more than thirty (30) minutes. Animated
motion pictures which include live action essential to the storyline (e.g.,
"Who Framed Roger Rabbit?") are not primarily animated motion
pictures (but are instead covered under subparagraphs (a) through (e)
above and subparagraph (g) below if produced subject to an IATSE
Basic Agreement).
(2) Contributions Required
The contributions required to be made for release
of feature length primarily animated motion pictures to free television
are as follows:
(i) No contributions are required to be made for
any feature length primarily animated motion picture produced and/or
released prior to November 1, 1992.
(ii) (A) With respect to those feature length
primarily animated motion pictures designated in subparagraph (B)
below, Producer shall make contributions based upon two percent (2%)
of "Producer's gross," as that term is defined in subparagraph (b)(2)
above. (The provisions of subparagraph (b)(3) are not applicable.)
(B) Subparagraph (ii)(A) above shall apply
only to the following feature length primarily animated motion pictures:
9 Employees employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement shall not be considered "employees employed by Producer under this
Agreement" for purposes of subparagraph (f) of this Article XIX, except as indicated in the
footnote to subparagraphs (f)(2)(v)(B)(1) and (f)(2)(v)(B)(2) below. Employees employed under
the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants shall not
be considered “employees employed by Producer under this Agreement” for any purpose under
this Article XIX.
- 51 -

--- PAGE 125 of 277 ---

"Pagemaster;"
"Once Upon a Forest" aka "The
Endangered;"
"Puff the Magic Dragon;"
"We're Back;"
"Cats;" and
"Snowballs."
(iii) With respect to any feature length primarily
animated motion picture not covered under subparagraph (i) or (ii)
above, which has its initial theatrical release on or after November 1,
1992, and which is thereafter released on free television, Producer shall
make contributions based upon three and six-tenths percent (3.6%) of
"Producer's gross," as that term is defined in subparagraph (b)(2) above.
(The provisions of subparagraph (b)(3) are not applicable.)
(iv) The contributions required under
subparagraph (f)(2)(ii) and (iii) above shall be paid to the Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans, as provided in subparagraph (b)(1)
above. The parties shall have the right to reallocate such contributions
as provided in subparagraph (b)(1) above.
(v) The following provisions of subparagraphs
(a) through (e) and subparagraph (g) of Article XIX are applicable to
feature length primarily animated motion pictures covered under this
subparagraph (f):
(A) subparagraphs (b)(2), (4), (5), (6), (7),
(8) and (9);
(B) The proration provision set forth in
subparagraph (c) shall be modified to read as follows:
Notwithstanding any provision in
subparagraph (f)(2) above, the following shall govern the computation
and remittance of the payment due for the release of feature length
primarily animated motion pictures to free television:
(1) If a feature length primarily
animated motion picture is produced partially with employees employed
by Producer under this Agreement10 and partially with persons working
10 Individuals employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and
Writers' Room Assistants) shall be considered "individuals subject to the Basic Agreement" and
"employees employed by Producer under this Agreement" for purposes of subparagraph (c) and
subparagraphs (f)(2)(v)(B)(1) and (2) of this Article XIX only and for no other purpose.
Accordingly, when Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder, the salaries of all individuals
employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Amendment
Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers' Room
- 52 -

--- PAGE 126 of 277 ---

in job categories referred to in this Basic Agreement who are not
covered under this Agreement, the percentage payment required under
subparagraphs (f)(2)(ii) and (iii) above shall be prorated by multiplying
such percentage payment by a fraction whose numerator consists of the
sum of the total below-the-line labor costs of individuals subject to the
Basic Agreement working on the picture and the total below-the-line
labor costs of individuals subject to The Animation Guild, Local #839
Agreement, if any, (whether such individuals are employed in
production or post-production, but excluding distribution--distribution,
for the purposes of this provision, shall include all laboratory work other
than that performed by employees charged directly to a picture) and
whose denominator consists of the sum of the total below-the-line labor
costs of all individuals working on the picture in job categories referred
to in this Basic Agreement and the total below-the-line labor costs of all
individuals working on the picture in job categories referred to in The
Animation Guild, Local #839 Agreement (whether in production or
post-production but excluding distribution--distribution, for the purposes
of this provision, shall include all laboratory work other than that
performed by employees charged directly to a picture).
(2) "Individuals subject to the Basic
Agreement" and "employees employed by Producer under this
Agreement"11 include all persons working on the motion picture under
the terms of the Basic Agreement who are hired to perform services in
Los Angeles or hired in Los Angeles to perform services at a distant
location, whether hired by a Producer itself or employed indirectly by a
Producer through loan-outs, payroll companies or comparable
employing agents; provided, however, that individuals not specifically
charged to the motion picture or who are included in general overhead
and individuals such as projectionists and publicists engaged primarily
in off-location services during the production of the motion picture are
not included in either the numerator or denominator of the proration
fraction described above.
Assistants) shall be included in both the numerator and the denominator of the fraction referred
to in subparagraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (f)(2)(v)(B)(1) of this Article XIX. For clarification, the
salaries of all individuals employed under the Local #871 Agreement covering Script
Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants shall not be included in the numerator or
denominator when the Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder.
11 Individuals employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and
Writers' Room Assistants) shall be considered "individuals subject to the Basic Agreement" and
"employees employed by Producer under this Agreement" for purposes of subparagraph (c) and
subparagraphs (f)(2)(v)(B)(1) and (2) of this Article XIX only and for no other purpose.
Accordingly, when Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder, the salaries of all individuals
employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Amendment
Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers' Room
Assistants) shall be included in both the numerator and the denominator of the fraction referred
to in subparagraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (f)(2)(v)(B)(1) of this Article XIX. For clarification, the
salaries of all individuals employed under the Local #871 Agreement covering Script
Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants shall not be included in the numerator or
denominator when the Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder.
- 53 -

--- PAGE 127 of 277 ---

(3) As to any feature length
primarily animated motion picture on which the Producer intends to
make percentage payments on a prorated basis, an Application to Prorate
shall be delivered by the Producer to the Administrator of the Pension
and Health Plans on or before the date that the first percentage payment
is due to the Plans from Producer. Said Application shall contain the
following information: the aggregate salaries paid to those employees
employed by Producer under the Basic Agreement; if applicable, the
aggregate salaries paid to those employees employed by Producer
subject to The Animation Guild, Local #839 Agreement; the total
salaries paid to the entire production crew, including the salaries of
employees working in job categories referred to in the Local #839
Agreement; and the job classifications of those individuals excluded
because they perform distribution functions or because they are not
specifically charged to the motion picture or are not included in general
overhead or are engaged primarily in off-location services. If an
Application to Prorate is submitted later than the date specified above, it
will nonetheless be deemed granted if the identified picture meets said
criteria; provided, however, that if he deems it necessary, the
Administrator of the Pension and Health Plans may require a Producer
submitting a late Application to Prorate to allow a special audit of the
percentage payments due and the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans shall be reimbursed by the Producer for all reasonable fees
and expenses incurred by the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans in performing said audit.
(4) The provisions of subparagraph
(d) shall apply, except that conforming changes shall be made to
eliminate the references to the basis for the Producer's right to prorate
and in the language relating to the nature of the information to be
maintained and made available to the Motion Picture Industry Pension
and Health Plans and their auditors.
(5) The provisions of subparagraph
(e) shall apply.
(6) The provisions of subparagraph
(g) shall apply.
(7) The parties hereto acknowledge
that a resolution of the obligations of Walt Disney Pictures & Television
to make Post '60s and Supplemental Markets payments on primarily
animated feature length motion pictures was reached with the IATSE
and the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans in June of
1992. The terms of that resolution are set forth in a Memorandum
Agreement executed in June of 1992. The terms of that Memorandum
Agreement supplement the provisions of this subparagraph (f); in the
- 54 -

--- PAGE 128 of 277 ---

event of any inconsistency between said provisions, the terms of the
Disney Memorandum Agreement shall control.
(g) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the
parties hereby confirm the following understanding and practices of the
Producers with respect to the Post '60s provisions:
(1) Article XIX does not require a percentage
payment to be made with respect to motion pictures on which the only
employees employed under the Basic Agreement performed post-
production (including editorial) work; and
(2) Article XIX does not require percentage payments
to be made with respect to motion pictures which are produced by a
producer which is not signatory to the Basic Agreement (and the Basic
Crafts Agreements).
(3) The Post '60s provisions apply only to theatrical
motion pictures "produced by Producer with employees employed under
this Agreement."12 The parties have agreed that the quoted language is
satisfied only if two (2) or more employees are employed on the
production under either the IATSE Agreement or the Basic Crafts
Agreements. This requirement is not satisfied if there is only one
employee covered under the Basic Agreement and one employee
covered under the Basic Crafts Agreements.
(i) The "Domestic Pictures" proration
provisions of the Post '60s clause provide that certain domestic pictures
are eligible for proration of Post '60s payments if, among other
requirements, the Los Angeles production crew consists of twenty-nine
(29) or fewer individuals (no more than twenty-two (22) of whom may
be hired from the jurisdiction of the IATSE West Coast Studio Locals).
In determining whether either the "29 or fewer" or "22 or fewer"
requirement has been met, employees who replace other employees are
not counted. For example, suppose there are seven (7) persons on the
crew who fall within the Los Angeles production crew definition,
including the Director of Photography. Suppose further that the Director
of Photography is replaced with another person hired from the
jurisdiction of Local #600. The replacement Director of Photography
would not be counted in figuring whether the "29 or fewer" or "22 or
fewer" standards were met.
12 Employees employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers'
Room Assistants shall not be considered "employees employed under this Agreement" for
purposes of subparagraph (g)(3) of this Article XIX.
- 55 -

--- PAGE 129 of 277 ---

However, the salary paid to any replacement
employee under these circumstances shall be included in both the
numerator and denominator.
(ii) Similarly, individuals hired from either the
jurisdiction of the IATSE West Coast Studio Local Unions or from the
jurisdiction of the Basic Crafts Unions who are replaced with another
individual employed under the same West Coast Studio Local
Agreement or Basic Crafts Agreement, respectively, shall not be counted
in determining whether a motion picture has been produced by a
Producer with "employees" employed under this Agreement.13
For example, if the only individual hired
from the jurisdiction of the West Coast Studio Local Unions and the
Basic Crafts Unions on a particular production is an Art Director, and
the Art Director is replaced on that production by another Art Director
hired from the jurisdiction of Local #800, there will still be only one (1)
employee hired from the jurisdiction of the IATSE on the production,
with the result that the Post '60s clause is not applicable to that
production.
XX. Policy, Applicability of Agreement and Subcontracting
(a) The purposes of this Article are to protect and preserve
the work opportunities available to employees covered by this
Agreement who have traditionally and historically performed the work
covered by the classifications and job duties set forth in this Agreement,
the Videotape Agreement, and the West Coast Studio Local Agreements.
These purposes are accomplished as follows:
(b) Policy
It is the policy of the Producer not to evade
intentionally the provisions of this Agreement, the Videotape
Agreement, and the West Coast Studio Local and Basic Crafts
Agreements by participating in the production of a motion picture, by
providing financing or the guarantee thereof for the production of said
motion picture, which picture has direct labor costs for bargaining unit
work (other than a minimal amount) less favorable than those provided
for under this Agreement, the Videotape Agreement, and the West Coast
Studio Local Agreements or other applicable collective bargaining
agreements.
13 Employees employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers'
Room Assistants shall not be considered "employees employed under this Agreement" for
purposes of subparagraph (g)(3) of this Article XIX.
- 56 -

--- PAGE 130 of 277 ---

Nothing in this Article shall be deemed to extend the
scope or jurisdiction of this Agreement, the Videotape Agreement or the
West Coast Studio Local Agreements.
Negative pick-up transactions, distribution transactions,
and production-distribution transactions which are bona fide are not
covered by this Article XX, except that in the event the Producer enters
into a production-distribution transaction, by providing financing or the
guarantee thereof for the production of a motion picture under this
Section, then the Producer shall notify the IATSE and Basic Crafts in
writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of principal
photography, providing the name of such motion picture, the name of
the Producer and corporate entity and/or principals. If there are unusual
circumstances in which the Producer cannot give such thirty (30) days
notice, the Producer shall give at least ten (10) days notice prior to the
commencement of principal photography.
(c) Applicability of Agreement
This Agreement shall be binding on the signatories
hereto and all parties who by reason of mergers, consolidations,
reorganizations, sale, assignment or the like shall succeed to, or become
entitled to, a substantial part of the production business of any signatory,
in and limited to Los Angeles County, California.
(d) Subcontracting
The parties recognize the existence of past
subcontracting practices within the multi-employer bargaining unit. The
parties agree that the rights, limitations and restrictions upon
subcontracting practices set forth in the West Coast Studio Local
Agreements shall remain in effect.
The Producer, as a matter of preservation of work for
employees who have historically and traditionally performed work under
the crafts and classifications as set forth in this Agreement, the
Videotape Agreement or the West Coast Studio Local Agreements,
agrees that as to bargaining unit work of a type which has not heretofore
been subcontracted in the multi-employer bargaining unit, the Producer
will subcontract such bargaining unit work to any other person,
corporation, joint venture or entity only: (1) if the Producer first notifies
the IATSE in writing of its intention to subcontract, and (2) the direct
labor costs of the person, corporation, joint venture or entity who will
perform such work under said subcontract are not less than the direct
labor costs set forth in this Agreement, the Videotape Agreement, the
West Coast Studio Local Agreements or other applicable collective
bargaining agreements; or (3) if the Producer lacks the requisite
technology, facilities or equipment to perform the work.
- 57 -

--- PAGE 131 of 277 ---

(e) In order to effectively enforce the provisions of this
Article, the Producer agrees that records in its possession or those to
which the Producer has access pertaining to direct labor costs will be
made available for inspection within twenty (20) days after a written
request therefor by the IATSE.
(f) A complaint by the IATSE of a violation of this Article
shall be submitted within fifteen (15) days after a written request to a
special Producer-IATSE Committee for a resolution. The Producer's
representation on the Committee shall consist of the AMPTP and the
Producer involved in the complaint. Upon agreement by the AMPTP,
the Producer involved and the IATSE, the decision of the Committee
shall be final and binding on the Producer involved and the IATSE. If
no resolution is reached by the Committee, the IATSE shall have the
right to submit the dispute to a final and binding regular arbitration
procedure as set forth in Article XXXII(b) of this Agreement.
XXI. Charitable Contributions
Deductions made by Producer from the employee's pay check
for charitable institutions shall be paid by Producer to such institutions
within two (2) weeks after such deductions are made from the pay
check. The IATSE shall give the Producer notice of any such failure to
pay the institution and if the Producer fails to make such required
payment within seven (7) days after such notice, such failure shall be
deemed to be a breach of this Agreement by such delinquent Producer.
As to those Producers who, by prior arrangement with the
respective institution or institutions, make such payments on a quarterly
or other basis, then such above-mentioned two (2) week period shall be
extended to the quarterly or other time basis as so arranged.
XXII. Annual Meetings
During the term of this Agreement, the IATSE and AMPTP
shall jointly sponsor meetings to be held not less frequently than once
per calendar year, on a day or days to be mutually agreed upon at least
one month in advance. The meetings shall focus on appropriate subjects
mutually agreed upon by the parties. As the parties reach agreements on
subjects, the Basic Agreement and/or the applicable Local Agreements
shall be modified accordingly.
Each Producer agrees to provide the IATSE with a copy of its
policies regarding hotel accommodations for employees who work long
hours.
- 58 -

--- PAGE 132 of 277 ---

XXIII. Documentaries, Industrial and Educational
The Producers, the IATSE and the Basic Crafts will continue
to negotiate in order to arrive at a separate agreement regarding the
making of documentaries, educationals and industrials.
XXIV. Non-Discrimination
The parties agree to continue to comply with all applicable
federal and state laws relating to non-discriminatory employment
practices.
Claims alleging a violation of this "Non-Discrimination"
provision are not subject to arbitration, but are instead subject to non-
binding mediation.
XXV. Contract Services Administration Trust Fund
(a) Producer shall pay to the Industry Pension Plan through
its Administrator, as agent for transmittal to the Contract Services
Administration Trust Fund ("CSATF"), sixty cents ($0.60) per hour for
each hour worked by or guaranteed an employee by such Producer
during the period commencing August 1, 2021 to and including July 31,
2024 for employees who are subject to the Retired Employees Fund (on
the same weekly and daily formula as the contributions paid under the
Retired Employees Fund); provided, however, that in place and stead of
the above cents per hour payments, such payments:
(1) with respect to employees of laboratories, shall be
at the rate of one and seven-tenths cent ($0.017) per hour on or after
August 1, 2021 to and including July 31, 2024;
(2) with respect to Production Office Coordinators,
Assistant Production Office Coordinators and Art Department
Coordinators employed under the Local #871 Amendment Agreement,
shall be at the rate of nine and two-tenths cents ($0.092) per hour for the
period beginning August 1, 2021 to and including July 31, 2024); and
(3) with respect to Script Coordinators and Writers'
Room Assistants employed under the Local #871 Agreement provisions
covering Script Coordinators and Writers' Room Assistants, shall be at
the rate of seven and eight-hundredths cents ($0.0708) per hour for the
period beginning August 1, 2021 to and including July 31, 2024.
- 59 -

--- PAGE 133 of 277 ---

The Producers have established CSATF for the purpose
of providing a Fund to be used for the administration of apprenticeship
and other training programs within the motion picture industry;
maintenance of appropriately classified and delineated seniority rosters
within the motion picture industry; administration of safety programs
and studies within the motion picture industry; administering and
financing physical examinations in connection with any uniform
industry retirement programs; and, generally, for the carrying on of
similar such programs for the administration of other industry-wide
services, studies or education. To this end, the parties have agreed to
continue safety and other required training under this Agreement. Such
Trust Fund shall be administered by a Board of Trustees who shall be
appointed by the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers.
(b) CSATF shall provide Second Step grievance services.
(c) The money received by the Administrator of the
Industry Pension Plan from such payments, as above provided, shall be
kept separate and apart from any funds of the Industry Pension Plan and
shall forthwith be paid to CSATF.
Such money so paid by Producer shall not constitute
nor be deemed to be wages due to the individual employees nor shall
said money so paid be in any manner liable for or subject to the debts,
contracts, liabilities or torts of such employees.
The Producers shall provide the IATSE with the
CSATF certified annual financial statements and its quarterly activity
statement.
A CSATF advisory committee, composed of
representatives from the IATSE, has been established. The Advisory
Committee shall assist in establishing electronic communications (e-
mail) with all Local Unions.
(d) All Industry Experience Rosters of those employees
subject to CSATF are to be administered under CSATF.
The Special Effects Qualification Committee, as
provided for in Paragraph 68 of the Local #44 Agreement, shall be
reconstituted to provide for the use of qualifications tests designed to
measure whether the individual tested possesses the necessary
knowledge and skills required to meet the minimum requirements of the
classification for which the test is designed.
- 60 -

--- PAGE 134 of 277 ---

If, at any time, it appears to CSATF that the test(s) has
(have) a disparate impact under federal and state laws and regulations
pertaining thereto, CSATF shall review such test(s). If, after reviewing
the test(s), CSATF determines that such disparate impact cannot be
eliminated, CSATF shall cease the use of such test(s) and shall
immediately attempt to revise the method of testing.
(e) The Producers will establish a procedure whereby any
interested party may contact CSATF to obtain information relative to the
past employment of an individual on a specific motion picture. In
response to such an inquiry, CSATF will make a good faith effort to
contact the involved Producer and secure such information on behalf of
the interested party. The Producer, on its part, will make a good faith
effort to respond to such inquiries by CSATF.
The provisions of this Article are made expressly for the
benefit of CSATF.
XXVA. IATSE Training Trust Fund
Producer shall contribute to the IATSE Training Trust Fund
("IATTF") on behalf of employees employed on theatrical motion
pictures, television motion pictures or "High Budget SVOD Programs"
(as defined in the Sideletter re Productions Made for New Media) under
the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #700 Amendment
Agreement (other than in the "Third Area" as defined in those
Amendment Agreements) for whom contributions to CSATF are not
otherwise due. The contribution rate shall be as provided in, and subject
to the same conditions as set forth in, the then-current Theatrical and
Television Motion Picture Area Standards Agreement ("ASA"), which
rate is fifteen cents ($0.15) per hour during the term of this Agreement
for each hour worked by such employee up to a maximum of twelve (12)
hours per day. Contributions for employees whose rates are subject to
individual negotiation shall be made on the basis of twelve (12) hours
per day.
XXVI. Implementation of Work Training and Apprenticeship
Programs
The Producers and the IATSE agree to cooperate in the
establishment of work training and/or apprenticeship programs with
respect to appropriately agreed-upon work classifications subject to this
Agreement, in conformance with all applicable affirmative action
programs, and specifically including the classifications of work covered
under the Agreement of the IATSE and its West Coast Locals. A
- 61 -

--- PAGE 135 of 277 ---

committee shall be convened for the purpose of formulating and
implementing training programs.
The parties recognize that deductions from hourly
contributions (in the amount of one cent (1¢) from contributions made at
the rate of two and one-quarter cents (2¼¢) per hour and in the amount
of one-third cent (1/3¢) from contributions made at the rate of three-
quarters cents (3/4¢) per hour) have been made under previous collective
bargaining agreements for the purpose of providing training or other
agreed-upon programs for the benefit of persons who suffer
displacement as a result of the introduction and utilization of electronic
technology. The parties agree that any CSATF monies which were
earmarked for exclusive use in providing training or other programs to
persons who suffered displacement as a result of the introduction and
utilization of electronic technology may be released to cover
expenditures required for any other agreed-upon training programs for
IATSE classifications in addition to covering expenditures for
continuing videotape retraining programs. Any person who successfully
completes an approved, bona fide training program offered through
CSATF shall be entitled to placement on the appropriate roster for which
trained.
XXVII. Rental Facilities Notice
The Producers shall provide the IATSE timely advance
written notice of a rental facility deal for use of its Los Angeles studio
production facilities when it has no financial interest in the picture. The
Producer shall give telephonic notice prior to the written notice.
XXVIII. Supplemental Markets
(a) The provisions of this Article relate and apply only to
motion pictures produced by Producer during the term hereof and
subject to this Agreement:
(1) The principal photography of which commenced
on or after August 1, 2021, which motion pictures are, either during the
term hereof or at any time thereafter, released in Supplemental Markets
(as defined below); and
(2) Produced with employees employed by Producer
under this Agreement.14
14 Employees employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers'
Room Assistants shall not be considered "employees employed by Producer under this
Agreement" for purposes of subparagraph (a) of this Article XXVIII. Employees employed
- 62 -

--- PAGE 136 of 277 ---

(3) Definition
The term "Supplemental Markets," as used in this
Agreement, means only: The exhibition of motion pictures by means of
cassettes (to the limited extent provided in subparagraph (i) of this
paragraph (3)), or pay television, as those terms are hereafter defined in
this paragraph (3), and the exhibition of television motion pictures on
any commercial carrier such as commercial airlines, trains, ships and
buses (referred to herein as "in-flight").
(i) Cassettes:
For the purposes of this Article, a cassette is
any audio-visual device, including without limitation, cassette, cartridge,
phonogram or other similar audio-visual device now known or hereafter
devised, containing a motion picture (recorded on film, disc, tapes or
other material) and designed for replay through a television receiver or
comparable device. The sale or rental of cassettes for replay through a
television receiver or comparable device in the home or in closed-circuit
use, such as in hotel rooms, constitutes "Supplemental Markets."
(ii) Pay Television
The term "Pay Television," as used in this
Article, shall mean exhibition on a home-type television screen by
means of telecast, cable, closed circuit, satellite to home or CATV when
a majority of licensed systems meet the following tests:
(a) a separate channel is provided for
which the subscriber pays a separate fee (which fee is a substantial
charge relative to other charges made to the subscriber) for that channel;
and/or
(b) the subscriber pays for the motion
picture or motion pictures selected (except that a motion picture or
motion pictures selected for which only a token charge is made shall not
be considered pay television); and/or
(c) the subscriber pays a fee for an
encoded telecast, which fee is a substantial charge relative to other fees
paid for encoded telecasts.
The foregoing tests cover those types of services
and systems which exist in the industry today and are commonly
understood in the industry today to be pay television services or systems.
under the Local #700 Amendment Agreement shall not be considered "employees employed by
Producer under this Agreement" for any purpose under this Article XXVIII.
- 63 -

--- PAGE 137 of 277 ---

The term "pay television," as used in this Article,
shall also include the exhibition of motion pictures through a television
receiver or comparable device by means of telecast, cable, closed circuit,
satellite or CATV for which the viewing audience (whether by the
individual viewer or by the hotel, motel, hospital or other
accommodation where the viewer is) pays to receive the program by
making a separate payment for such specific program. Exhibition in
theaters or comparable places by such means is theatrical exhibition and
shall not be considered pay television.
The term "Supplemental Markets" does not
include the exhibition of a motion picture by cassette or otherwise over a
television broadcast station or in theatrical exhibition, and for this
purpose "theatrical exhibition" includes the educational market, the
exhibition of theatrical motion pictures on any commercial carrier
(referred to herein as "in-flight"), such as commercial airlines, trains,
ships and buses, and other uses which have been traditionally considered
theatrical exhibition of theatrical motion pictures, other than the specific
home use hereinabove defined as the "Supplemental Markets" for
cassettes.
Whenever reference is made in this Agreement to
pay television, such reference shall be deemed to include only those uses
of motion pictures as to which a charge is actually made to the
subscriber for the program viewed, or for which the subscriber has the
option, by additional payment, to receive special programming over one
or more special channels. When no program charge or special channel
charge is made to the subscriber in addition to the general charge, the
transmission of motion pictures by telecast, cable, closed circuit, satellite
or CATV is free television exhibition for the purposes of this
Agreement, and such exhibition shall not be considered Supplemental
Markets exhibition.
The Producers have agreed to the inclusion of
"pay television" in the "Supplemental Markets" because, under the
present pattern of distribution of motion pictures, "pay television" is
supplemental to the primary market. The Producers reserve the right in
future negotiations to contend that the pattern of release has changed so
that "pay television" is no longer a Supplemental Market but constitutes
or is a part of the primary market of distribution of motion pictures, and
that, therefore, no additional payment pursuant to this Article XXVIII
should be made with respect to the release of motion pictures (including
those covered by this Agreement) in said market. Nothing herein shall
limit the scope of negotiations on said subject. Furthermore, if the
Producers in their collective bargaining agreement with the Directors
Guild of America, Writers Guild of America or Screen Actors Guild-
American Federation of Television and Radio Artists negotiate a
provision treating pay-per-view exhibitions as part of the primary
- 64 -

--- PAGE 138 of 277 ---

market, rather than supplemental markets, then such provision shall
automatically be deemed included hereunder, based on a comparable
formula as may have been applied in such DGA, WGA or SAG-AFTRA
Agreement.
(b) (1) As to such motion pictures distributed in
Supplemental Markets other than by means of cassettes (other than a
motion picture included in a "qualifying transaction" described in Article
XXVIIIA.), the following shall apply:
(i) The Producer will pay five and four-tenths
percent (5.4%) (hereinafter referred to as the "percentage payment") of
the "Producer's gross" received therefrom, computed as hereinafter
provided.
(ii) The term "Producer's gross," as used herein,
means the worldwide total gross receipts derived by the distributor of the
motion picture (who may be the Producer or a distributor licensed by the
Producer) from licensing the right to exhibit the motion picture in
Supplemental Markets other than by means of cassettes and including, in
the case of a "foreign territorial sale" by the Producer, the income
received from such sale by Producer but not the income received by
"purchaser" or the "licensee."
(2) As to such motion pictures distributed in
Supplemental Markets by means of cassettes (other than a motion
picture included in a "qualifying transaction" described in Article
XXVIIIA.), the following shall apply:
(i) The Producer will pay six and seventy-five
hundredths percent (6.75%) of the "Producer's gross," as defined below,
until the Producer's gross equals one million dollars ($1,000,000).
Thereafter, Producer shall pay eight and one-tenth percent (8.1%) of
"Producer's gross" in excess of one million dollars ($1,000,000).
(ii) If the Producer is the Distributor or the
Distributor is owned by or affiliated with the Producer, the "Producer's
gross" derived from the distribution of such motion pictures by cassettes
shall be twenty percent (20%) of the worldwide wholesale receipts
derived by the Distributor. In such cases, if the Distributor is also the
retailer, a reasonable allocation of the retail gross receipts shall be made
as between the Distributor as distributor and the Distributor as retailer,
and twenty percent (20%) of the former only shall be deemed to be
"Producer's gross." The reasonableness of such allocation shall be
subject to arbitration and, in such arbitration, generally prevailing trade
practices in the cassette industry with respect to dealings between non-
related companies shall be relevant evidence.
- 65 -

--- PAGE 139 of 277 ---

If the Distributor is not the Producer and is
not owned by or affiliated with the Producer, the "Producer's gross" shall
be one hundred percent (100%) of the fees received by the Producer
from licensing the right to distribute such motion picture by cassettes.
(3) The Producer's gross shall not include:
(i) Sums realized or held by way of deposit, as
security, until and unless earned, other than such sums as are non-
returnable;
(ii) Rebates, credits or repayments for cassettes
returned (and, in this connection, the Producer shall have the right to set
up a reasonable reserve for returns);
(iii) Sums required to be paid or withheld as
taxes, in the nature of turnover taxes, sales taxes or similar taxes based
on the actual receipts of such motion picture or on any monies to be
remitted to or by the Producer, but there shall not be excluded from
Producer's gross any net income tax, franchise tax or excess profit tax or
similar tax payable by the Producer or such distributor on its net income
or for the privilege of doing business;
(iv) Frozen foreign currency until the Producer
shall either have the right to freely use such foreign currency, or
Producer has the right to transmit to the United States such foreign
currency from the country or territory where it is frozen. If such
currency may be utilized or transmitted as aforesaid, it shall be deemed
to have been converted to United States dollars at the rate of exchange at
which said currency was actually transmitted to the United States as
aforesaid, or, if not actually transmitted, then at the prevailing free
market rate of exchange at the time such right to use or to transmit
occurs. Frozen foreign currency shall be deemed to be unblocked on the
basis of "first-in, first-out" unless otherwise allocated by local foreign
fiscal authorities. Allocation of such unblocked funds as between
revenue which serves as the basis of determining payments hereunder
and other revenue shall be on a proportional basis, subject to different
earmarking by local foreign fiscal authorities.
(v) Sums paid to any advertising agency in
connection with any exhibition of a motion picture in Supplemental
Markets.
(4) Such monies shall be paid to the Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans and shall be allocated as follows:
(i) First, to the Pension Plan to fund the
difference between (A) the "actuarially-required" contributions for the
- 66 -

--- PAGE 140 of 277 ---

year, taking into account benefit increases and five (5) year vesting, and
(B) the expected contributions for the Pension Plan year, subject to
specified actuarial methods, provided that there are sufficient funds in
the Active Employees Fund of the Health Plan to maintain benefits and a
six (6) month reserve;
(ii) Then, next, to the Retired Employees Fund
of the Health Plan to the extent needed to fund an eight (8) month
reserve;
(iii) Then, next, to the Pension Plan to the extent
that Post '60s monies (as provided in Article XIX.(b)(1)(iii) of this
Agreement) are insufficient to fund (A) the cost of the two additional
checks (i.e., a 13th and 14th check) granted to all employees who retired
on or before August 1, 2009 pursuant to the provisions of Article
XIII.(f)(2) of the 2015 Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement; (B) the
cost of the two additional checks (i.e., a 13th and 14th check) granted to
all employees who retired on or before August 1, 2009 pursuant to the
provisions of Article XIII.(f)(2) of the 2018 Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic
Agreement; and (C) the cost of the two additional checks (i.e., a 13th
and 14th check), or one additional check (a 13th check), granted to all
employees who retired on or before August 1, 2009 pursuant to the
provisions of Article XIII.(f)(2) of this Agreement;
(iv) Then, next, to fund the Active Employees
Fund of the Health Plan;
(v) Then, next, to the extent that the level of
reserves in the Retired Employees Fund exceeds twenty (20) months,
and to the extent that the level of reserves in the Active Employees Fund
exceeds twelve (12) months, reserves in excess of such amounts shall be
reallocated as provided in Article XIIIA.(c)(2).
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
subparagraph (a) above, such allocation shall apply to monies payable
on and after August 1, 2021 for the distribution of motion pictures in
Supplemental Markets, regardless of which Basic Agreement applies.
On an annual basis during the term of this
Agreement, the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers,
the IATSE and the Chairman of the Basic Crafts (on behalf of the Basic
Crafts Group) shall jointly review this allocation in conjunction with a
review of the allocation of Post '60s monies. Any agreement on any
reallocation of such monies mutually agreed upon shall become a part of
this Agreement. The term "Basic Crafts Group," as used herein, refers
to those unions noted in this Article XXVIII.(e).
- 67 -

--- PAGE 141 of 277 ---

Exhibit A of each of the Pension Plan, Individual
Account Plan and Health Plan (and the mechanical issues addressed
therein) shall be amended to express the agreements of the bargaining
parties with respect to the foregoing allocation.
(5) Such gross income realized in foreign currency in
any reporting period required hereunder shall be deemed to be converted
to United States dollars at the prevailing market rate of exchange at the
close of such reporting period, except that when such gross income has
actually been transmitted to the United States, it shall be deemed
converted to United States dollars at the rate of exchange at which such
foreign currency was actually so transmitted.
(6) Allocation of Producer's Gross
If any agreement for distribution in the
Supplemental Market includes more than one motion picture, or includes
both Supplemental Market rights and other rights, the Producer shall
make a reasonable allocation for the purpose of determining payments
due hereunder. If the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans
contend that such allocation is not reasonable, then such claim shall be
submitted to arbitration.
(7) Producer's obligation shall accrue hereunder only
after "Producer's gross" is received by the Producer. Payments of
amounts accruing hereunder shall be made quarterly on the basis of
quarterly statements, as hereinafter provided. Should any discounts,
taxes, duties or charges be imposed in connection with the receipt or
remittance of foreign funds, only so much of such funds as remain
thereafter shall be included in "Producer's gross." Producer shall not be
responsible for loss or diminution of foreign receipts as a result of any
matter or thing not reasonably within the control of the Producer. The
Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans shall be bound by any
arrangement made in good faith by the Producer, or for its account, with
respect to the deposit or remittance of foreign revenue. Frozen foreign
receipts shall not be considered trust funds and the Producer may freely
commingle the same with other funds of the Producer.
(8) If any license or outright sale of exhibition rights
to the motion picture in Supplemental Markets includes as a part thereof
any filmed commercial or advertising material, the Producer shall be
permitted to allocate a reasonable amount (in accordance with then
current standard charges in the industry) to such commercial or
advertising material, and the amount so allocated shall not be included in
Producer's gross hereunder.
- 68 -

--- PAGE 142 of 277 ---

(9) Such payments made hereunder to the Motion
Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans are not and shall not in any
manner be construed to be wages due to any individual employee, nor in
any manner be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities or
torts of any employee.
(10) Within a reasonable time after the close of the
calendar or fiscal quarter, but not exceeding sixty (60) calendar days,
Producer will furnish to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health
Plans written reports showing the Producer's gross received from the
sale, lease, license and distribution (whether by Producer or a
distributor) of each such motion picture in such Supplemental Markets.
Such reports shall be furnished quarterly for each fiscal or calendar
quarter of the Producer. Concurrently with the furnishing of each such
report, the Producer will make the payments shown to be due by such
report. All payments shall be made by check payable to the order of and
delivered to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans.
Each such quarterly statement shall designate the title of the motion
picture involved. On request, the Producer shall make available to the
Health Plan all accounting statements delivered by a distributor to the
Producer, but only insofar as such statements relate to the Producer's
gross. The Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans shall have
the right, at reasonable times, to examine the books and records of
Producer insofar as they relate to the Producer's gross. Producer shall
not be required to furnish any quarterly statement hereunder with respect
to the motion picture prior to Producer's receipt of any Producer's gross
with respect to the motion picture, or for any quarterly period during
which no Producer's gross from the motion picture is received by the
Producer.
The parties agree that they will work through the
auspices of the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans to
implement reporting of Supplemental Markets income by medium, as
soon as it is feasible to do so.
If the Producer shall fail to make any payment
provided for in this Article when and as the same becomes due and
payable, it shall bear interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month
on the unpaid balance thereof commencing to accrue ten (10) business
days after notice in writing to Producer from the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans of such delinquency.
(11) If the Producer shall sell, assign, transfer or
otherwise dispose of the distribution rights to such motion picture in
such Supplemental Markets, or shall license the distribution rights to the
motion picture in such Supplemental Markets, Producer shall obtain
from the buyer, licensee or distributor a separate agreement, made
expressly for the benefit of the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
- 69 -

--- PAGE 143 of 277 ---

Health Plans, requiring such buyer, licensee or distributor to comply
with the provisions of this Article XXVIII. Such agreement shall be in
substantially the following form:
"The undersigned, _________________________
(insert name of buyer, licensee or distributor)
herein for convenience referred to as the 'Buyer,'
hereby agrees with ________________________
(insert name of Producer)
that all motion pictures covered by this
Agreement are subject to the provisions of Article
XXVIII of the 'Producer-I.A.T.S.E. and
M.P.T.A.A.C. Basic Agreement of 2021' relating
to payments to the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans on release of a motion
picture to Supplemental Markets and the said
Buyer hereby agrees, expressly for the benefit of
the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health
Plans to abide by and perform the provisions of
said Basic Agreement and make said payments
required thereby. It is expressly understood and
agreed that the rights of Buyer to exhibit or
license the exhibition of such motion picture in
such Supplemental Markets shall be subject to and
conditioned upon the payment to the Motion
Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans, as
provided in Article XXVIII of said Basic
Agreement, and it is agreed that said Motion
Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans shall be
entitled to injunctive relief and damages against
Buyer in the event such payments are not made.
"The undersigned agrees to keep or have access to
complete records showing the income derived
from the distribution of such motion pictures in
such Supplemental Markets within the entire
territory for which Buyer is granted such rights
and the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans shall have the right at all reasonable
times to inspect such records. The undersigned
shall give the Motion Picture Industry Pension
and Health Plans prompt written notice of the date
on which each motion picture covered hereby is
first released in such Supplemental Markets. An
inadvertent failure to comply with said
requirement of notice shall not constitute a default
by the undersigned hereunder, provided such
default is cured promptly after notice thereof from
- 70 -

--- PAGE 144 of 277 ---

the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health
Plans."
Producer agrees to give notice to the Motion
Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans within thirty (30) days of each
sale, transfer or license of the distribution rights to such a motion picture
for Supplemental Markets, with the name and address of the Buyer,
assignee or distributor, and to deliver to the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans an executed copy of each assumption
agreement entered into by the Producer. An inadvertent failure on the
part of the Producer to comply with any of the provisions of this
subparagraph (11) shall in no event constitute a default by the Producer
hereunder or a breach of this Agreement, provided that such failure is
cured promptly after notice thereof from the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans.
Upon delivery of such assumption agreement, and
on condition that the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans
approve in writing the financial responsibility of the Buyer, Producer, or
any subsequent owner obtaining the execution of such an assumption
agreement, shall not be further liable to the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans for the keeping of any such records or the
payment required hereunder insofar as they relate to the exhibition of the
motion picture in Supplemental Markets, and the Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans agree to look exclusively to the party
last executing such an assumption agreement for the keeping of such
records, payment and compliance with credit obligations.
(12) With respect to such motion picture, Producer
agrees either to:
(i) include in any chattel mortgage, pledge or
other lien or security agreement covering the motion picture a provision,
made expressly for the benefit of the Motion Picture Industry Pension
and Health Plans, to the effect that the chattel mortgagee, pledgee, lien
or security holder agrees that if such mortgage, pledge, lien or security
agreement is foreclosed, and such mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security
holder thereby obtains title to the motion picture and subsequently
exhibits the motion picture in Supplemental Markets, then in such event,
after such mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security holder has recouped its
loan so secured, plus interest and all costs and expenses incident to
foreclosure, such mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security holder will be
bound by the provisions of this Article XXVIII with respect to payments
to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans thereafter
becoming due and payable thereunder; provided, however, that nothing
herein contained shall prevent such mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security
holder who has acquired title to the photoplay from thereafter making a
sale of the motion picture to a third party free and clear of any
- 71 -

--- PAGE 145 of 277 ---

limitations or obligations whatsoever. Except as otherwise provided in
this subsection (i), the rights of the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans hereunder shall be subordinate to the rights of such
mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security holder; or
(ii) in the alternative, be bound by the
provisions of this Article XXVIII with respect to payments to the
Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans, if any, due after such
foreclosure shall have been made. In the event Producer elects this
alternative, the provisions of subsection (i) above shall be inapplicable,
and if the provisions referred to in subsection (i) above are not included
in any such chattel mortgage, pledge, lien or security agreement,
Producer shall be deemed to have elected the alternative provided for in
this subsection (ii).
In the event of a foreclosure referred to in
subsection (i) above, should the Producer distribute the motion picture
for such mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security holder, Producer shall be
bound during the period of such distribution by the provisions of this
Article XXVIII with respect to payments due hereunder, to the same
extent as the mortgagee, pledgee, lien or security holder under
subsection (i) above. Any such payments made by the Producer as the
distributor shall be credited against any obligation of the mortgagee,
pledgee, lien or security holder that may be due or become due to the
Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans under subsection (i)
above; it being understood that the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans shall be entitled to such payments but once.
The foregoing provisions of this subparagraph
(12) shall not apply to any motion picture subject to any security
instrument in existence on the effective date of this Agreement.
(13) If, after the effective date of this Agreement, the
Producer enters into a contract with a so-called "independent producer"
for the production and financing of a theatrical motion picture and the
distribution thereof by the Producer (such contract being hereinafter
referred to as an "independent contract"), Producer will include in such
independent contract an agreement on the part of the independent
producer expressly for the benefit of the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans that the independent producer will pay, in the
manner herein provided, the amounts, if any, required to be paid under
the provisions of this Article XXVIII with respect to such motion
picture. If such agreement on the part of the independent producer be
not included in any independent contract prior to the exhibition of the
motion picture in the Supplemental Markets, the Producer shall be liable
and responsible for the payments, if any, required to be made under the
provisions of this Article XXVIII with respect to such motion picture. If
such agreement on the part of the independent producer is included in
- 72 -

--- PAGE 146 of 277 ---

the independent contract prior to exhibition of the motion picture in the
Supplemental Markets, then the Producer shall not be liable or
responsible in any manner or to any extent with respect to the motion
picture under the provisions of this Article XXVIII. The Producer will
notify the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans of any and
all such independent contracts entered into by the Producer.
(14) If Producer increases the present Supplemental
Markets "percentage payments" amount of "Schedule of Payments" in
any other collective bargaining agreement to which the Producer is or
becomes a party (e.g., actors), then the five and four-tenths percent
(5.4%) percentage payment, the six and seventy-five hundredths percent
(6.75%) percentage payment and the eight and one-tenth percent (8.1%)
percentage payment provided above in this Supplemental Markets
provision shall be correspondingly increased.
(c) Notwithstanding any provision in subparagraph (b)
above to the contrary, the following shall govern the computation and
remittance of the "percentage payment" as that term is defined in
subparagraph (b) above:
(1) Definitions. For purposes of this subparagraph (c)
and for no other purpose, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth below:
(i) "Production" or "produce" shall include both
production and pre-production functions, but not post-production or
distribution functions.
(ii) "Prorate" or "proration" shall mean the
computation of the percentage payment by multiplying five and four-
tenths percent (5.4%) or six and seventy-five hundredths percent
(6.75%) or eight and one-tenth percent (8.1%), whichever is applicable,
of "Producer's gross" by a fraction whose numerator consists of the total
below-the-line labor cost of individuals subject to the Basic
Agreement15 or hired from the jurisdiction of the union locals referred to
in subparagraph (e) below working on the picture (whether in production
15 Individuals employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and
Writers' Room Assistants) shall be considered "individuals subject to the Basic Agreement" and
"employees employed by Producer under this Agreement" for purposes of subparagraph (c) and
subparagraphs (f)(2)(v)(C)(1) and (2) of this Article XXVIII only and for no other purpose.
Accordingly, when Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder, the salaries of all individuals
employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Amendment
Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers' Room
Assistants) shall be included in both the numerator and the denominator of the fraction referred
to in subparagraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (f)(2)(v)(C)(1) of this Article XXVIII. For clarification, the
salaries of all individuals employed under the Local #871 Agreement covering Script
Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants shall not be included in the numerator or
denominator when the Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder.
- 73 -

--- PAGE 147 of 277 ---

or post-production but excluding distribution -- distribution, for the
purposes of this Article, shall include all laboratory work other than that
performed by employees charged directly to a picture) and whose
denominator consists of the total below-the-line labor cost of all
individuals working on the picture in job categories referred to either in
this Basic Agreement or in the other collective bargaining agreements
between Producer and the West Coast Studio Locals or between
Producer and the unions referred to in subparagraph (e) below (whether
in production or post-production but excluding distribution --
distribution, for the purposes of this Article, shall include all laboratory
work other than that performed by employees charged directly to a
picture).
(iii) "Individuals subject to the Basic
Agreement" and "employees employed by Producer under this
Agreement"16 include all persons working on the motion picture under
the terms of the Basic Agreement or hired from the jurisdiction of union
locals referred to in subparagraph (e) below who are hired to perform
services in Los Angeles or hired in Los Angeles to perform services at a
distant location whether hired by a Producer itself or employed
indirectly by a Producer through loan-outs, payroll companies or
comparable employing agents; provided, however, that individuals not
specifically charged to the motion picture or who are included in general
overhead and individuals such as projectionists, drivers and publicists
engaged primarily in off-location services during the production of the
motion picture are not included in the terms "made with two or more
individuals subject to the Basic Agreement" or "Los Angeles production
crew," as those terms are used in subparagraph (c)(3) below and are not
included in either the numerator or denominator of the proration fraction
described above.
(iv) "Foreign" means any theatrical motion
picture for which twenty percent (20%) or more of the shooting days of
principal photography takes place in a country other than the United
States, its territories or Canada.
16 Individuals employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and
Writers' Room Assistants) shall be considered "individuals subject to the Basic Agreement" and
"employees employed by Producer under this Agreement" for purposes of subparagraph (c) and
subparagraphs (f)(2)(v)(C)(1) and (2) of this Article XXVIII only and for no other purpose.
Accordingly, when Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder, the salaries of all individuals
employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Amendment
Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers' Room
Assistants) shall be included in both the numerator and the denominator of the fraction referred
to in subparagraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (f)(2)(v)(C)(1) of this Article XXVIII. For clarification, the
salaries of all individuals employed under the Local #871 Agreement covering Script
Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants shall not be included in the numerator or
denominator when the Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder.
- 74 -

--- PAGE 148 of 277 ---

(v) "Domestic" means any theatrical motion
picture which is not foreign.
(vi) "Los Angeles production crew," for
purposes of determining whether percentage payments on domestic
pictures may be prorated, shall mean persons hired from the jurisdiction
of the IATSE West Coast Studio Locals17 or hired from the jurisdiction
of the union locals referred to in subparagraph (e) below, employed by
the Producer in production.
(vii) "Entire production crew," as such term is
used herein, shall mean all individuals in job categories referred to either
in this Basic Agreement or in the other collective bargaining agreements
between Producer and the West Coast Studio Locals or between
Producer and the unions referred to in subparagraph (e) below employed
by the Producer on the production of the motion picture in question.
(viii) "Other collective bargaining agreements
between Producer and the West Coast Studio Locals" means only those
Local Agreements subject to this Basic Agreement.
(2) Foreign Pictures. Percentage payments shall be
made on a prorated basis for any foreign picture made with two or more
individuals subject to the Basic Agreement.
(3) Domestic Pictures.
(i) If two or more individuals subject to the
Basic Agreement are employed on a domestic picture, it will be subject
to liability for percentage payments to the extent hereinafter provided.
(ii) Except as provided in subparagraph
(c)(3)(iii) below: (A) percentage payments on domestic pictures
distributed in Supplemental Markets other than by means of cassettes
will be five and four-tenths percent (5.4%) of "Producer's gross;" and
(B) percentage payments on domestic pictures distributed in
Supplemental Markets by means of cassettes will be six and seventy-five
hundredths percent (6.75%) on the first one million dollars of
"Producer's gross," as that term is defined in subparagraph (b)(2)(ii) of
this Article XXVIII, and eight and one-tenth percent (8.1%) of
"Producer's gross" in excess of one million dollars.
17 Individuals employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers'
Room Assistants shall be considered part of the "Los Angeles production crew" for purposes of
this subparagraph (c) only and not for any other purpose.
- 75 -

--- PAGE 149 of 277 ---

(iii) (A) Percentage payments on a domestic
picture shall be made on a prorated basis if a majority of the shooting
days of principal photography on the motion picture occurred outside of
the following states – Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho,
Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Washington and
Wyoming. In the event that the IATSE determines that the proration
formula set forth in this subsection (A) adversely affects Supplemental
Markets revenues, it shall have the right to terminate same, in which
case proration on domestic pictures shall be governed by the provisions
of subsection (B) below.
(B) Percentage payments on domestic
pictures not covered by subsection (A) above or which commence
principal photography more than one hundred twenty (120) days after
the IATSE terminates the provisions of subparagraph (A) above shall be
made on a prorated basis if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The Los Angeles production
crew, as defined above, consists of twenty-nine (29) or fewer individuals
(no more than twenty-two (22) of whom may be hired from the
jurisdiction of the IATSE West Coast Studio Locals), and the salaries
paid to those twenty-nine (29) or fewer individuals constitute less than
fifty percent (50%) of the salaries of the entire production crew. In
determining whether twenty-nine (29) or fewer individuals are employed
on the picture, the following shall be excluded: make-up artists,
hairdressers and costumers who are specifically required to be furnished
by the Producer in accordance with the personal service contract of an
actor and those individuals engaged in post-production or distribution
functions, including, but not limited to, editing and looping regardless of
where or when those functions are performed; and
(2) A majority of the shooting days
of principal photography on the motion picture occurred outside of the
following states – Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho,
Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Washington and
Wyoming.
(iv) As to any domestic picture on which the
Producer intends to make percentage payments on a prorated basis, an
Application to Prorate shall be delivered by the Producer to the
Administrator of the Pension and Health Plans on or before the date that
the first percentage payment is due to the Plans from Producer. Said
Application shall contain the following information: If the right to
prorate is based upon the provisions of subparagraph (c)(3)(iii)(A)
above, the aggregate salaries paid to the Los Angeles production crew
and the aggregate salaries paid to the entire production crew; the number
of shooting days of principal photography occurring in the states listed
in subparagraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) above; the total other shooting days and
- 76 -

--- PAGE 150 of 277 ---

the states in which said other shooting days occurred. If the right to
prorate is based upon the provisions of subparagraph (c)(3)(iii)(B)
above, the number of individuals on the Los Angeles production crew;
the number of such individuals who were hired from the jurisdiction of
the IATSE West Coast Studio Locals; the number and job classifications
of those individuals excluded pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph
(c)(3)(iii)(B)(1) above; the aggregate salaries paid to the Los Angeles
production crew; the aggregate salaries paid to the entire production
crew; the number of shooting days of principal photography occurring in
the states listed in subparagraph (c)(3)(iii)(B)(2) above; the total other
shooting days and the states in which said other shooting days occurred.
If an Application to Prorate is submitted later than the dates specified
above, it will nonetheless be deemed granted if the identified picture
meets said criteria; provided, however, that, if he deems it necessary, the
Administrator of the Pension and Health Plans may require a Producer
submitting a late Application to Prorate to allow a special audit of the
percentage payments due and the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans shall be reimbursed by the Producer for all reasonable fees
and expenses incurred by the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans in performing said audit.
(d) (1) Producer will furnish to the Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans written reports showing the
Producer's gross received from the sale, lease, license and distribution
(whether by Producer or a distributor) in Supplemental Markets of each
motion picture subject to the provisions of this Article. In the written
reports filed with the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans,
the Producer shall indicate whether it is prorating on each picture being
reported and, if so, what proration percentage is being applied and the
basis for the Producer's right to prorate -- i.e., whether proration is being
applied pursuant to subparagraph (c)(2) or pursuant to subparagraph
(c)(3)(iii)(A) or pursuant to subparagraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) above. Such
reports shall be furnished quarterly during each fiscal or calendar quarter
of the Producer. Concurrently with the furnishing of each such report,
the Producer will make the payments shown to be due by such report.
All required payments shall be made by check payable to the order of
and delivered to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans.
Each such quarterly statement shall designate the title of the motion
picture involved. On request, the Producer shall make available to the
Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans all accounting
statements delivered by a distributor to the Producer, but only insofar as
such statements relate to the Producer's gross. The Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans shall have the right, at reasonable
times, to examine the books and records of Producer insofar as they
relate to the Producer's gross and -- as to any motion picture for which
Producer assumes as Buyer the obligation to make percentage payments
pursuant to subparagraph (b)(11) above -- the documents reflecting or
effectuating the purchase; provided that, with respect to these latter
- 77 -

--- PAGE 151 of 277 ---

documents, the Producer may require the persons examining them to
execute reasonable agreements to respect their confidentiality. Producer
shall not be required to furnish any quarterly statement hereunder with
respect to the motion picture prior to Producer's receipt of any
Producer's gross with respect to the motion picture, or for any annual
period during which no Producer's gross from the motion picture is
received by the Producer.
(2) For each motion picture produced by Producer on
which the Producer plans to prorate (whether proration is being applied
pursuant to subparagraph (c)(2) or pursuant to subparagraph (c)(3)
above) for three (3) years after either the date of the first annual report
showing a percentage payment on such motion picture or the receipt by
the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans of the Producer's
written request for audit of the percentage payments due, Producer shall
maintain and make available to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and
Health Plans and their auditors the following information: the names of
the employees on the Los Angeles production crew; the names of the
employees on the entire production crew; the names of all individuals
subject to the Basic Agreement working on the motion picture (whether
in pre-production, production or post-production functions); the names
of all individuals who were not subject to the Basic Agreement but who
worked on the motion picture in job categories referred to either in this
Basic Agreement or in the other collective bargaining agreements
between Producer and the West Coast Studio Locals or between
Producer and the unions referred to in subparagraph (e) below; the total
below-the-line labor costs of individuals subject to the Basic Agreement
(whether in pre-production, production or post-production functions);
and, the total below-the-line labor costs of all individuals working on the
motion picture in job categories referred to either in this Basic
Agreement or in the other collective bargaining agreements between
Producer and the West Coast Studio Locals or between Producer and the
unions referred to in subparagraph (e) below.
(3) As to any motion picture subject to subparagraph
(c) above for which Producer assumes the obligation to make percentage
payments pursuant to subparagraph (b)(11) above, if Producer wishes to
prorate its percentage payments for such motion picture, it shall obtain
the records provided for in subparagraph (d)(2) above from the producer
of such motion picture.
(e) The provisions of this Article XXVIII were negotiated
by the following unions for the benefit of the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans:
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees
and Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts of
the United States, its Territories and Canada; Studio
- 78 -

--- PAGE 152 of 277 ---

Transportation Drivers, Local 399 of the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters; Local 40 of the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers; Local 724 of the
International Hod Carriers, Building and Common Laborers
Union; Local 755 of the Operative Plasterers and Cement
Masons International Association of United States and
Canada; and United Association of Journeymen and
Apprentices of the Plumbing and Piping Industry of United
States and Canada, Local 78.
Any reference in any other collective bargaining
agreement (whether with one of the above unions or any other union or
guild) to a "percentage payment to the Motion Picture Industry Pension
Plan and/or Motion Picture Industry Health Plan with respect to the
exhibition of motion pictures in Supplemental Markets" is and shall be
deemed to be a reference to the "percentage payment" as set forth in this
Article XXVIII, which amount is the only amount, in the aggregate,
which the Producer and all such unions have agreed upon for the benefit
of the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans with respect to
the exhibition of motion pictures in Supplemental Markets.
The compliance by Producer with the conditions set
forth in this Article XXVIII likewise constitutes compliance as to all the
unions.
(f) The following provisions shall apply to "feature length
primarily animated motion pictures," as defined herein, produced by
Producer with employees employed by Producer under this
Agreement,18 which motion pictures for the first time are, either during
the term hereof or at any time thereafter, released in Supplemental
Markets, as defined in subparagraph (a)(3) above.
(1) Definition
A "feature length primarily animated motion
picture" refers to any motion picture produced for theatrical exhibition
which consists primarily or exclusively of animated footage and has a
continuous running time of more than thirty (30) minutes. Animated
motion pictures which include live action essential to the storyline (e.g.,
"Who Framed Roger Rabbit?") are not primarily animated motion
pictures (but are instead covered under subparagraphs (a) through (e)
18 Employees employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and
Writers' Room Assistants) shall not be considered "employees employed by Producer under this
Agreement" for purposes of subparagraph (f) of this Article XXVIII, except as indicated in the
footnote to subparagraphs (f)(2)(v)(C)(1) and (f)(2)(v)(C)(2) below. Employees employed under
the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants shall not
be considered “employees employed by Producer under this Agreement” for any purpose under
this Article XIX.
- 79 -

--- PAGE 153 of 277 ---

above and subparagraph (g) below if produced subject to an IATSE
Basic Agreement).
(2) Contributions Required
The contributions required to be made for release
of feature length primarily animated motion pictures in Supplemental
Markets are as follows:
(i) No contributions are required to be made on
any feature length primarily animated motion picture produced and/or
released prior to November 1, 1992.
(ii) (A) With respect to those feature length
primarily animated motion pictures designated in subparagraph (B)
below, Producer shall make contributions based upon the following:
(1) for distribution in Supplemental
Markets other than by means of cassettes, two percent (2%) of
"Producer's gross," as that term is defined in subparagraphs (b)(1)(ii) and
(b)(3) above; and
(2) for distribution in Supplemental
Markets by means of cassettes, 2.25% of "Producer's gross," as that term
is defined in subparagraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (b)(3) above, until the
Producer's gross equals one million dollars ($1,000,000) and, thereafter,
upon 2.75% of "Producer's gross."
(B) Subparagraph (ii)(A) above shall apply
only to the following feature length primarily animated motion pictures:
"Pagemaster;"
"Once Upon a Forest" aka "The
Endangered;"
"Puff the Magic Dragon;"
"We're Back;"
"Cats;" and
"Snowballs."
(iii) With respect to any feature length primarily
animated motion picture not covered under subparagraph (i) or (ii)
above, which has its initial theatrical release on or after November 1,
1992, and which is thereafter released in Supplemental Markets,
Producer shall make contributions based upon:
- 80 -

--- PAGE 154 of 277 ---

(A) for distribution in Supplemental
Markets other by means of cassettes, three and six-tenths percent (3.6%)
of "Producer's gross," as that term is defined in subparagraphs (b)(1)(ii)
and (b)(3) above; and
(B) for distribution in Supplemental
Markets by means of cassettes, four and five-tenths percent (4.5%) of
"Producer's gross," as that term is defined in subparagraphs (b)(2)(ii) and
(b)(3) above, until the Producer's gross equals one million dollars
($1,000,000) and, thereafter, upon five and four-tenths percent (5.4%) of
"Producer's gross."
(iv) The contributions required under
subparagraph (f)(2)(ii) and (iii) above shall be paid to the Motion Picture
Industry Pension and Health Plans. The parties shall have the right to
reallocate such contributions as provided in subparagraph (b)(4) above.
(v) The following provisions of subparagraphs
(a) through (e) and subparagraph (g) of Article XXVIII are applicable to
feature length primarily animated motion pictures covered under this
subparagraph (f):
(A) subparagraph (a)(3);
(B) subparagraphs (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(ii),
(b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(5), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8), (b)(9), (b)(10), (b)(11) and
(b)(12);
(C) The proration provision set forth in
subparagraph (c) shall be modified to read as follows:
Notwithstanding any provision in
subparagraph (f)(2) above, the following shall govern the computation
and remittance of payment due for release of feature length primarily
animated motion pictures in Supplemental Markets:
(1) If a feature length primarily
animated motion picture is produced partially with employees employed
by Producer under this Agreement19 and partially with persons working
19 Individuals employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Amendment
Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers' Room Assistants) shall be
considered "individuals subject to the Basic Agreement" and "employees employed by Producer under this
Agreement" for purposes of subparagraph (c) and subparagraphs (f)(2)(v)(C)(1) and (2) of this Article XXVIII only
and for no other purpose. Accordingly, when Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder, the salaries of all individuals
employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Amendment Agreement (but not the
Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers' Room Assistants) shall be included in both the
numerator and the denominator of the fraction referred to in subparagraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (f)(2)(v)(C)(1) of this
Article XXVIII. For clarification, the salaries of all individuals employed under the Local #871 Agreement
covering Script Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants shall not be included in the numerator or denominator
when the Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder.
- 81 -

--- PAGE 155 of 277 ---

in job categories referred to in this Basic Agreement who are not
covered under this Agreement, the percentage payment required under
subparagraphs (f)(2)(ii) and (iii) above shall be prorated by multiplying
such percentage payment by a fraction whose numerator consists of the
sum of the total below-the-line labor costs of individuals subject to the
Basic Agreement working on the picture and the total below-the-line
labor costs of individuals subject to The Animation Guild, Local #839
Agreement, if any, (whether such individuals are employed in
production or post-production, but excluding distribution -- distribution,
for the purposes of this provision, shall include all laboratory work other
than that performed by employees charged directly to a picture) and
whose denominator consists of the sum of the total below-the-line labor
costs of all individuals working on the picture in job categories referred
to in this Basic Agreement and the total below-the-line labor costs of all
individuals working on the picture in job categories referred to in The
Animation Guild, Local #839 Agreement (whether in production or
post-production but excluding distribution -- distribution, for the
purposes of this provision, shall include all laboratory work other than
that performed by employees charged directly to a picture).
(2) "Individuals subject to the Basic
Agreement" and "employees employed by Producer under this
Agreement"20 include all persons working on the motion picture under
the terms of the Basic Agreement who are hired to perform services in
Los Angeles or hired in Los Angeles to perform services at a distant
location, whether hired by a Producer itself or employed indirectly by a
Producer through loan-outs, payroll companies or comparable
employing agents; provided, however, that individuals not specifically
charged to the motion picture or who are included in general overhead
and individuals such as projectionists and publicists engaged primarily
in off-location services during the production of the motion picture are
not included in either the numerator or denominator of the proration
fraction described above.
(3) As to any feature length
primarily animated motion picture on which the Producer intends to
make percentage payments on a prorated basis, an Application to Prorate
shall be delivered by the Producer to the Administrator of the Pension
and Health Plans on or before the date that the first percentage payment
is due to the Plans from Producer. Said Application shall contain the
20 Individuals employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Amendment
Agreement (but not the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers' Room Assistants) shall be
considered "individuals subject to the Basic Agreement" and "employees employed by Producer under this
Agreement" for purposes of subparagraph (c) and subparagraphs (f)(2)(v)(C)(1) and (2) of this Article XXVIII only
and for no other purpose. Accordingly, when Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder, the salaries of all individuals
employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Amendment Agreement (but not the
Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers' Room Assistants) shall be included in both the
numerator and the denominator of the fraction referred to in subparagraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (f)(2)(v)(C)(1) of this
Article XXVIII. For clarification, the salaries of all individuals employed under the Local #871 Agreement
covering Script Coordinators and Writers’ Room Assistants shall not be included in the numerator or denominator
when the Producer is entitled to prorate hereunder.
- 82 -

--- PAGE 156 of 277 ---

following information: the aggregate salaries paid to those employees
employed by Producer under the Basic Agreement; if applicable, the
aggregate salaries paid to those employees employed by Producer
subject to The Animation Guild, Local #839 Agreement; the total
salaries paid to the entire production crew, including the salaries of
employees working in job categories referred to in the Local #839
Agreement; and the job classifications of those individuals excluded
because they perform distribution functions or because they are not
specifically charged to the motion picture or are not included in general
overhead or are engaged primarily in off-location services. If an
Application to Prorate is submitted later than the dates specified above,
it will nonetheless be deemed granted if the identified picture meets said
criteria; provided, however, that if he deems it necessary, the
Administrator of the Motion Picture and Industry Pension and Health
Plans may require a Producer submitting a late Application to Prorate to
allow a special audit of the percentage payments due and the Motion
Picture and Industry Pension and Health Plans shall be reimbursed by
the Producer for all reasonable fees and expenses incurred in performing
said audit.
(4) The provisions of subparagraph
(d) shall apply, except that conforming changes shall be made to
eliminate the references to the basis for the Producer's right to prorate
and in the language relating to the nature of the information to be
maintained and made available to the Motion Picture and Industry
Pension and Health Plans and their auditors.
(5) The provisions of subparagraph
(e) shall apply.
(D) The provisions of subparagraph (g)
shall apply.
(3) The parties acknowledge and agree that no
Supplemental Markets payments are due for the release in Supplemental
Markets of primarily animated motion pictures which do not meet the
definition of a "feature length primarily animated motion picture" in
subparagraph (f)(1) above. For example, no payments are due for the
release in Supplemental Markets of primarily animated motion pictures
produced for free television, pay television/videocassettes or basic cable.
(4) The parties hereto acknowledge that a resolution
of the obligations of Walt Disney Pictures & Television to make Post
'60s and Supplemental Markets payments on primarily animated feature
length motion pictures was reached with the IATSE and the Motion
Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans in June of 1992. The terms of
that resolution are set forth in a Memorandum Agreement executed in
June of 1992. The terms of that Memorandum Agreement supplement
- 83 -

--- PAGE 157 of 277 ---

the provisions of this subparagraph (f); in the event of any inconsistency
between said provisions, the terms of the Disney Memorandum
Agreement shall control.
(g) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the
parties hereby confirm the following understanding and practices of the
Producers with respect to the Supplemental Markets provisions:
(1) Article XXVIII does not require a percentage
payment to be made with respect to motion pictures on which the only
employees employed under the Basic Agreement performed post-
production (including editorial) work; and
(2) Article XXVIII does not require percentage
payments to be made with respect to motion pictures which are produced
by a producer which is not signatory to the Basic Agreement (and the
Basic Crafts Agreements).
(3) The Supplemental Markets provisions apply only
to motion pictures "produced by Producer with employees employed
under this Agreement."21 The parties have agreed that the quoted
language is satisfied only if two (2) or more employees are employed on
the production under either the IATSE Agreement or the Basic Crafts
Agreements. This requirement is not satisfied if there is only one
employee covered under the Basic Agreement and one employee
covered under the Basic Crafts Agreements.
(4) (i) The "Domestic Pictures" proration provision
of the Supplemental Markets clause provides that certain domestic
pictures are eligible for proration of Supplemental Markets payments if,
among other requirements, the Los Angeles production crew consists of
twenty-nine (29) or fewer individuals (no more than twenty-two (22) of
whom may be hired from the jurisdiction of the IATSE West Coast
Studio Locals). In determining whether either the "29 or fewer" or "22
or fewer" requirement has been met, employees who replace other
employees are not counted. For example, suppose there are seven (7)
persons on the crew who fall within the Los Angeles production crew
definition, including the Director of Photography. Suppose further that
the Director of Photography is replaced with another person hired from
the jurisdiction of Local #600. The replacement Director of
Photography would not be counted in figuring whether the "29 or fewer"
or "22 or fewer" standards were met.
21 Employees employed under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement or the Local #871
Amendment Agreement or the Local #871 Agreement covering Script Coordinators and Writers'
Room Assistants shall not be considered "employees employed under this Agreement" for
purposes of subparagraph (g)(3) of this Article XXVIII.
- 84 -

--- PAGE 158 of 277 ---

However, the salary paid to any replacement
employee under these circumstances shall be included in both the
numerator and denominator.
(ii) Similarly, individuals hired from either the
jurisdiction of the IATSE West Coast Studio Local Unions or from the
jurisdiction of the Basic Crafts Unions who are replaced with another
individual employed under the same West Coast Studio Local
Agreement or Basic Crafts Agreement, respectively, shall not be counted
in determining whether a motion picture has been produced by a
Producer with "employees" employed under this Agreement.
For example, if the only individual hired
from the jurisdiction of the West Coast Studio Local Unions and the
Basic Crafts Unions on a particular production is an Art Director, and
the Art Director is replaced on that production by another Art Director
hired from the jurisdiction of Local #800, there will still be only one (1)
employee hired from the jurisdiction of the IATSE on the production,
with the result that the Supplemental Markets clause is not applicable to
that production.
(h) If any other Union or Guild negotiates, as part of its
collective bargaining agreement with the AMPTP, residuals on product
for iPods or similar devices, the Producers will meet with the IATSE to
negotiate an appropriate residual formula.
XXVIIIA. Special Residual Formula for Theatrical Motion Pictures
Licensed to Free Television, Supplemental Markets
and/or New Media for which a Minimum Guarantee or
Non-Returnable Advance is Payable
Should a Producer enter into a license agreement on or after
August 1, 2015 with respect to theatrical motion pictures covered under
this Basic Agreement or under any prior Basic Agreement that requires
Post '60s or Supplemental Market payments, which license agreement
provides a minimum guarantee or non-returnable advance to the
Producer in exchange for theatrical distribution rights as well as
distribution rights of the theatrical motion picture in free television,
Supplemental Markets and/or New Media (hereinafter referred to as a
"qualifying transaction"), the provisions of Articles XIX and XXVIII
and the Sideletter re Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted Via New
Media to this Agreement shall apply, except as provided below:
(a) The percentage payment to the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans shall be four and one-half percent (4.5%) of
"Producer's gross" which, as used herein, means the total license fees
(including overage payments) received by the Producer in connection
- 85 -

--- PAGE 159 of 277 ---

with the qualifying transaction described above. (Subparagraph (3) of
Article XIX(b) shall not apply to such percentage payment.) Such
amount shall be in lieu of any percentage payment otherwise due to the
Plans under the Post '60s and Supplemental Markets provisions of this
Agreement (Articles XIX and XXVIII), or of any prior Basic
Agreement, and under the Sideletter re Exhibition of Motion Pictures
Transmitted Via New Media to this Agreement or any prior Basic
Agreement with respect to the market(s) included in such transaction
(i.e., it shall satisfy all residual payment obligations in connection with
all residual-bearing markets covered by the transaction).
(b) Of the total contribution due to the Plans under
subparagraph (a) above, thirty percent (30%) shall be allocated as
provided in subparagraphs (i) through (vii) of Article XIX(b)(1), and
seventy (70%) shall be allocated as provided in subparagraphs (i)
through (v) of Article XXVIII(b)(4).
(c) Once during the term of each IATSE Basic Agreement
that succeeds the 2015 IATSE Basic Agreement, the parties will re-
examine the blended contribution rate set forth in subparagraph (a)
above.
(d) This Article XXVIIIA. shall not apply to feature length
primarily animated motion pictures.
XXIX. Studio Zone, Secondary Studio Zone, New York Thirty
(30) Mile Zone and Production Centers
(a) Studio Zone
Studio Zone Defined - The studio zone shall be the area
within a circle thirty (30) miles in radius from Beverly Boulevard and La
Cienega Boulevard, Los Angeles, California and includes Agua Dulce,
Castaic (including Lake Castaic), Leo Carillo State Beach, Ontario
International Airport, Piru and Pomona (including the Los Angeles
County Fair Grounds). The Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc., Conejo Ranch
property shall be considered as within the studio zone. (See Exhibit "Z"
attached.)
Work Time - Studio rates and working conditions shall
prevail for all work performed within the studio zone; however, for
newly-called employees and those employees notified on the previous
day prior to their departure from the studio (or the zone location) to
report at the zone location, work time shall begin and end at the zone
location; otherwise, work time shall begin and end at the studio, such
work time to include travel time both ways between the studio and the
zone location.
- 86 -

--- PAGE 160 of 277 ---

Transportation within the Studio Zone - Except as is
otherwise provided herein, with respect to work at any studio zone
location, Producer shall either furnish transportation to the employee or,
at its option, may require employee to report at such location, in which
case it will allow mileage of thirty cents (30¢) per mile computed
between the studio and zone location and return to be paid on the
employee's pay check that covers the payroll week in which the mileage
was incurred. Employee shall not be requested to transport other
employees or equipment (other than trade tools). The studio shall have
the right to require the employee to report (subject to the same mileage
allowance between the studio and the pick-up point) at a pick-up point
within the studio zone for subsequent transportation furnished by the
studio from such pick-up point to nearby location and return to the pick-
up point. Work at another studio is not a "zone location." The IATSE
will not unreasonably deny a request for waiver of the mileage
allowance for employees who report to a "zone location" which is a
regular place of employment for a production. As to theatrical motion
pictures only, the Producer shall not be required to pay a mileage
allowance to any employee reporting to a "zone location" within Los
Angeles County which is within a ten (10) mile radius from a point to be
designated by the Producer. Commencing outside the ten (10) mile
radius, a mileage allowance will be paid as provided above. Secured
parking will be provided at such locations as hereinafter required in this
provision.
Reporting Within the Zone - As to an employee
reporting to a designated site within the studio zone, if there are any
moves required in the studio zone from one location to another, or to a
nearby location, the employees will be transported to and from such
other location.
Parking Facilities - When an employee reports for work
within the studio zone other than at a studio, the Producer will pay for
parking in a supervised public parking lot. If no such public parking is
available, the Producer will provide supervised or secured parking.
Courtesy Housing - Upon request of an employee who
is required to work in excess of fourteen (14) hours in the studio zone
and who advises the Producer that he or she is too tired to drive home
safely, Producer shall provide the employee either courtesy housing or
round trip transportation from the designated crew parking area to home
and return at the Producer's expense. Producer shall have no
responsibility for the personal vehicle of an employee who elected to use
his or her personal vehicle in lieu of Producer-provided transportation.
Golden Hours - When this provision applies, if an
employee reports for work outside a studio and within the studio zone,
the "Golden Hour" pay rates will commence after twelve (12) elapsed
- 87 -

--- PAGE 161 of 277 ---

hours, except that on television productions, "Golden Hour" pay rates
for "on production" employees will commence after twelve (12) hours
worked.
Material Violations - If the Local Union involved
claims that a material violation of this provision is occurring with
respect to the employees covered by its Local collective bargaining
agreement with Producer, then:
(1) Such Local shall immediately notify the
designated representative of Producer, the IATSE, the AMPTP and
Contract Services Administration Trust Fund ("CSATF").
(2) Such Local Union and such representative of the
Producer shall immediately settle the dispute or determine whether or
not there is a material violation of this provision.
(3) In the event the Local Union and the Producer do
not settle the dispute or make such a determination as above provided,
then the IATSE, the AMPTP and CSATF must, within twenty-four (24)
hours after receipt of such notice of the alleged material violation,
determine whether or not there is such a material violation. Such a
determination shall be final and binding upon the parties and the
employees subject to such Local Union collective bargaining agreement
involved.
If it is so determined that there is such a material
violation, this studio zone provision (i) with respect to television films,
shall be suspended in respect to production of the television episode
involved; and (ii) with respect to a theatrical motion picture, shall be
suspended in respect to production of the theatrical picture involved for
a period of fifteen (15) calendar days following the determination that
there is such a material violation. Provided, however, Producer shall not
reschedule the shooting from the zone to the studio in order to avoid the
application of this provision.
(4) Alleged violations of this studio zone provision
shall not be subject to the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure provided
in the Local Agreements.
(b) Secondary Studio Zone
(1) The secondary studio zone shall be the area
extending ten (10) miles from the perimeter of the studio zone and
including John Wayne Airport and the City of Huntington Beach in its
entirety. It does not include any of the areas that fall within the
definition of the studio zone in subparagraph (a) above.
- 88 -

--- PAGE 162 of 277 ---

(2) When an employee is directed to report to a
location within the secondary studio zone, the following shall apply:
(i) Producer shall notify employees not less
than twenty-four (24) hours in advance that it intends to require
employees to report to a location within the secondary studio zone.
Such notification shall not constitute a work call.
(ii) Mileage shall be paid from the studio or
production office to and from the location within the secondary studio
zone. In addition, the Producer shall pay a $4.50 per day allowance to
each employee asked to report within the secondary studio zone.
(iii) Courtesy housing shall be offered to those
employees who work in excess of twelve (12) hours in the secondary
studio zone. In the alternative, the Producer may provide round trip
transportation to home and return at the Producer's expense.
(iv) Rest periods shall be calculated from the
perimeter of the thirty (30) mile studio zone. A designated
representative of the Producer and a designated representative of the
IATSE shall determine the amount of time needed to travel between the
secondary studio zone location and the perimeter of the thirty (30) mile
studio zone for purposes of calculating the rest periods. In the event of a
dispute, the matter shall be referred to a representative of the Union and
to the Labor Relations representative of the Producer for resolution.
(v) Except as otherwise provided in this
subparagraph (b), all of the other provisions applicable to an employee
reporting within the studio zone shall apply.
(c) The IATSE agrees to continue to grant waivers on the
same basis as it has in the past for locations that are outside the studio
zone and the secondary studio zone, such as Lake Hughes, Elizabeth
Lake and the Nikken Building in Irvine.
(d) Courtesy Housing and Transportation within New York
Thirty (30) Mile Zone and Production Centers
Upon request of an employee who is required to work
in excess of fourteen (14) hours within a radius of thirty (30) miles of
Columbus Circle in the New York metropolitan area or in a "Production
Center" (as defined below) and who advises the Producer that he/she is
too tired to drive home safely, Producer shall provide the employee
either courtesy housing or round trip transportation from the designated
- 89 -

--- PAGE 163 of 277 ---

crew parking area to home and return at the Producer's expense.22 The
Producer shall have no responsibility for the personal vehicle of an
employee who elected to use his or her personal vehicle in lieu of
Producer-provided transportation.
A "Production Center" means the area within a
thirty (30) mile radius of City Hall in: Anchorage, Alaska; Phoenix,
Arizona; Tucson, Arizona; Sacramento, California; San Diego,
California; Denver, Colorado; Fort Lauderdale, Florida; Miami, Florida;
Orlando, Florida; Atlanta, Georgia; Honolulu, Hawaii; New Orleans,
Louisiana; Shreveport, Louisiana; Baltimore, Maryland; Boston,
Massachusetts; Detroit, Michigan; Minneapolis - St. Paul, Minnesota;
St. Louis, Missouri; Las Vegas, Nevada; Albuquerque, New Mexico;
Santa Fe, New Mexico; Charlotte, North Carolina; Wilmington, North
Carolina; Cleveland, Ohio; Portland, Oregon; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania;
San Juan, Puerto Rico; Nashville, Tennessee; Austin, Texas; Dallas - Ft.
Worth, Texas; Houston, Texas; San Antonio, Texas; Salt Lake City,
Utah; Richmond, Virginia; Washington, D.C.; Seattle, Washington; and
any other place where a television pilot or series is based.
XXX. Sales Agreements
Producer will hereafter provide in its licensing agreements
that credits of a motion picture, when provided by the collective
bargaining agreement, shall not be changed or eliminated on theatrical or
television exhibition.
XXXI. Safety
(a) It is agreed by the parties that too great an emphasis
cannot be placed on the need to provide a safe working environment. In
that context, it shall be incumbent on each employer (herein referred to
as the Producer) to furnish employment and a place of employment
which are safe and healthful for the employees therein; to furnish and
use safety devices and safeguards, and adopt and use practices, means,
methods, operations and processes which are reasonably adequate to
render such employment and place of employment safe and healthful; to
do every other thing reasonably necessary to protect the life, safety and
health of employees. Correspondingly, no employer shall require or
permit any employee to go or be in any employment or place of
employment which is not safe and healthful. In addition, every
employer and every employee shall comply with occupational safety and
health standards and all rules, regulations and orders pursuant to
22 Round trip transportation may include public transportation if reasonable under the
circumstances.
- 90 -

--- PAGE 164 of 277 ---

applicable laws which are applicable to his/her own actions and conduct;
no person (employer or employee) shall remove, displace, damage,
destroy or carry off any safety device, safeguard, notice or warning,
furnished for the use in any employment or place of employment; no
person shall interfere with the use of any method or process adopted for
the protection of any employee, including his/herself, in such
employment or place of employment.
(b) Rigid observance of safety regulations must be adhered
to and willful failure of any employee to follow safety rules and
regulations can lead to disciplinary action including discharge; however,
no employee shall be discharged or otherwise disciplined for refusing to
work on a job that exposes the individual to a clear and present danger to
life or limb, or for making a good faith report to the First Assistant
Director, the Unit Production Manager or his or her supervisor relating
to the safety of another employee exposed to a clear and present danger
of life or limb. No set of safety regulations, however, can
comprehensively cover all possible unsafe practices of working. The
Producer and the Union therefore undertake to promote in every way
possible the realization of the responsibility of the individual employee
with regard to preventing accidents to himself or his fellow employees.
For purposes of this Article XXXI.(b), the question of whether an
employee has made a report in good faith is subject to the grievance and
arbitration procedure set forth in Article XXXII of this Agreement.
(c) It is also agreed that when unresolved or continuing
disputes exist regarding Safety and Health compliance, noncompliance
or interpretation therein of Title 8, Chapter 4, Subchapter 7, General
Industry Safety Orders, said disputes shall be referred to the Alliance of
Motion Picture and Television Producers and CSATF-administered
Labor Management Safety Committee for review, investigation,
interpretation and advisory recommendations to the Employer(s). The
CSATF-administered Labor Management Safety Committee is the
industry-wide Safety Committee consisting of the IATSE and its West
Coast Studio Local Unions, the Basic Crafts Unions, the Screen Actors
Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, the
Directors Guild of America and representatives of the Producers. It is
understood that it is not the responsibility of the Safety Committee, or
any member of the Committee, the IATSE or its Local Unions, the Basic
Crafts, CSATF or the AMPTP to implement or comply with any such
recommendations.
(d) The Labor Management Safety Committee shall meet at
least once a month.
(e) The cost of the Labor Management Committee will be
borne by the Contract Services Administration Trust Fund.
- 91 -

--- PAGE 165 of 277 ---

(f) A separate bulletin shall be issued by the AMPTP to
provide the following:
(1) The Producers reaffirm their commitment to
regularly inspect the studio working areas and to establish preventive
maintenance procedures to assure safe working conditions.
(2) Complaints of unsafe conditions will be promptly
investigated by the Producer and appropriate action will be taken if the
Producer finds that an unsafe condition does exist.
(3) Each Producer will designate an individual as the
responsible safety officer for its respective studio, facility, laboratory or
location site. Except on location, each safety officer will have a well-
publicized "hot-line" phone number which employees can anonymously
call to alert management to any existing safety problems which may
require correction.
(4) The Producers will provide access to all working
areas to the Safety Director of CSATF so that he will periodically
inspect same.
(5) Communication regarding safety policy will be
made available to all affected employees directly or by posting on
bulletin boards.
(g) Concerns stemming from the use of smoke on sets shall
be referred to the industry-wide Safety Committee for resolution.
(h) The parties agree to submit to the CSATF Safety
Action Team, for its consideration during the term of the Agreement, the
addition of Automatic External Defibrillator ("A.E.D.") training to the
Safety Pass Program curriculum and to discuss the circumstances under
which a medic should be provided with an A.E.D. when working on
location.
XXXIA. Training
Prior to November 21, 2021, a four (4) hour minimum call
shall apply for any day on which an employee, at the request of an
individual Producer, reports for safety training.
Effective November 21, 2021, a four (4) hour minimum call
shall apply for any day on which an employee does not work and reports
for training at the request of an individual Producer.
- 92 -

--- PAGE 166 of 277 ---

XXXII. Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The grievance and arbitration procedure provisions in
Agreements now in effect between the Producers, on the one hand, and
the IATSE and its respective West Coast Studio Locals, on the other
hand, shall be amended in their entirety as set forth below, effective
August 1, 2021:
In the event of any dispute between the Local Union or any
of the persons subject to this Agreement and the Producer with regard to
wage scales, hours of employment or working conditions or with regard
to the interpretation of this Agreement concerning such provisions, the
procedure, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be as
follows:
Step One - The aggrieved party shall mail or deliver to the other
party a written notice of the claim and concurrently furnish a copy of
such notice to the International Representative of the IATSE and
Contract Services Administration Trust Fund. Such written notice shall
contain the specific contract sections which are alleged to have been
violated, the dates(s) or approximate date(s) of the alleged violation(s),
the facts on which the grievance is based, the name of the production (if
any), the remedy sought and the names of the individuals aggrieved,
when known, except for group claims for which the classifications of the
individuals aggrieved, when known, shall be listed.
A claim by the Local Union that the confirmation regarding
guarantees of employment set forth in Paragraph 6 of the West Coast
Studio Local Agreements has been violated by a Producer may be filed
only upon the written approval of the West Coast Office of the
International Union. Such written approval shall accompany the claim.
The party which has received the grievance shall, within fifteen
(15) working days after the grievance has been received, respond in
writing to the aggrieved party, setting forth the reasons, if any, for the
action(s) taken by it, which action(s) gave rise to the grievance. Copies
of such written response shall also be furnished to the same parties
served with the grievance. The representative of the Local Union and
the designated representative of Producer shall immediately discuss the
matter and the grievance shall be settled if at all possible. The decision,
if any, of such representatives shall be final and binding upon the parties
and any employees concerned.
If the party receiving the grievance fails to serve the written
response as required by Step One, then the other party may elect to
proceed directly to arbitration or to Step 2 by serving a written demand
upon the other party within five (5) working days after the written
response was due.
- 93 -

--- PAGE 167 of 277 ---

Conciliation Committee
Step Two - If, within ten (10) working days after the response has
been served, the parties fail to meet, or if the grievance is not settled,
then the aggrieved party may proceed to Step Two, by delivering or
mailing, within five working days thereafter, a written demand, which
shall include a statement of the particulars of the claim, upon the other
party and upon the International Representative of the IATSE and
CSATF. If neither party requests a Step Two conciliation meeting, then
the aggrieved party may proceed directly to Step Three regarding
expedited or regular arbitration, by serving a written demand upon the
other party within the time periods set forth above. Failure of the
aggrieved party to so serve such demand for a Step Two conciliation
meeting or an arbitration shall constitute a waiver of the claim, unless
the parties mutually stipulate otherwise in Step One.
If a demand for Step 2 is so served, the grievance shall be brought
before the Conciliation Committee as soon as practicable, but not later
than twenty (20) working days following the receipt of such notice. The
Conciliation Committee shall consist of an International Representative
of the IATSE and a representative of CSATF. In a grievance involving
an employer engaged exclusively in the operation of film processing
laboratories and Local #700 (formerly Local #683) on behalf of
employees of such laboratories, the provisions of the Step Two
conciliation meeting shall be as set forth in the Producer - I.A.T.S.E. and
M.P.T.A.A.C. Laboratory Film/Video Technicians and Cinetechnicians,
Local #700 Agreement.
The parties to the grievance shall be present and shall be
responsible for the presentation of their own position at such time and
place. If the aggrieved party fails to appear, then the grievance shall be
considered as waived. If the responding party fails to appear, then the
aggrieved party shall be entitled to proceed with the presentation of its
position, and the Conciliation Committee, upon presentation of evidence
showing a contract violation, shall have the authority to and shall issue
an immediate final and binding award in favor of the aggrieved party,
including an appropriate remedy.
If either party intends to appear, but does not intend to present any
facts or arguments as to a defense or as to the claim, then such party
shall so notify the other party as to such intention at least three (3) days
prior to the conciliation meeting. In any event, either party may, at least
three (3) days prior to the date of the Conciliation Committee meeting,
cancel such Conciliation Committee meeting and the aggrieved party
may proceed directly to arbitration under Step Three.
- 94 -

--- PAGE 168 of 277 ---

The AMPTP and the IATSE shall adopt written rules and
procedures which shall be designed to foster to the maximum extent
possible the exploratory and conciliatory nature of Step Two of this
procedure.
The Conciliation Committee shall, at the beginning of the meeting,
assist the parties in a good faith attempt to resolve the dispute. In the
event the parties, identified as the Producer and the Union, are able to
resolve the grievance with the assistance of the Conciliation Committee,
the Conciliation Committee shall reduce the resolution of the grievance
to writing as a binding determination on all parties. Such a
determination shall be signed by the parties.
If the dispute is not resolved as provided above, then both parties
at that time must declare whether they will be bound by a decision of the
Conciliation Committee. If both parties agree to be bound, then the
Conciliation Committee shall hear the evidence and arguments of the
parties and shall render a decision, which may include a "no decision"
award, which shall be final and binding on all the parties, including any
individual grievant. Disputes involving jurisdiction or technological
changes shall be specifically excluded from the jurisdiction of the
Conciliation Committee.
The Conciliation Committee shall have the right, upon written
request of either party, to refer the dispute back to the parties, without
prejudice to the merits and without expanding the time limits for the
filing of a grievance or a response, if the Conciliation Committee is of
the opinion that either the written grievance or response does not meet
the requirements set forth in Step One.
Step Three - If the parties do not agree that the Conciliation
Committee's recommendation will be final and binding on them or if the
parties fail to resolve the grievance, or if the Conciliation Committee has
issued a "no decision" award, then the parties may proceed to expedited
arbitration or regular arbitration as provided below:
(a) Expedited Arbitration - The aggrieved party may elect
to proceed to expedited arbitration within ten (10) working days
following the Step Two meeting, or within ten (10) working days
following the cancellation of the Step Two meeting, but only in cases
wherein the claim arises under Paragraph 68 involving disputes relating
to the failure to follow studio seniority or industry seniority, and
disputes arising under Paragraph 68 covering the discharge or discipline
for cause of an employee subject to Paragraph 68 of the applicable West
Coast Studio Local Agreements, or in cases wherein the claim for wage
payments, adjustments and/or damages consistent with the contract does
not exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000). The aggrieved party may
likewise proceed to expedited arbitration following Step Two over
- 95 -

--- PAGE 169 of 277 ---

disputes with regard to only "WAGE SCALES, HOURS OF
EMPLOYMENT, AND WORKING CONDITIONS" provision of the
Agreement subject to this Article and provided the claim for damages
does not exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000). Any other case may
be submitted to expedited arbitration only by the mutual agreement of
the parties.
In an arbitration involving an employer engaged
exclusively in the operation of film processing laboratories and Local
#700 (formerly Local #683) on behalf of employees of such laboratories,
the expedited arbitration procedure under Step Three will be as set forth
in the Producer - I.A.T.S.E. and M.P.T.A.A.C. Laboratory Film/Video
Technicians and Cinetechnicians, Local #700 Agreement.
Disputes involving jurisdiction or technological
changes shall be specifically excluded from the jurisdiction of expedited
arbitration.
Except as time limits are set forth in Paragraph 68,
cases that are submitted to expedited arbitration shall be heard within ten
(10) working days after the other party received the demand for
expedited arbitration or within ten (10) working days after the other
party gives notice of its agreement to proceed to expedited arbitration in
cases where the mutual agreement of the parties is required.
The Alliance of Motion Picture and Television
Producers and the IATSE shall revise the list of arbitrators assigned to
hear expedited arbitrations. The list shall consist of four (4) arbitrators
and two (2) alternates with recognized experience as professional labor
arbitrators.
During the term of this Agreement, the parties may
mutually add the names of additional persons to the panel of neutral
arbitrators to either supplement the panel or replace persons no longer
available to serve.
From the panel of names of the neutral arbitrators set
forth above, the arbitrators shall be assigned, depending upon their
availability, in rotation, to the cases as they arise. The parties may, by
mutual consent, select an arbitrator out of rotation provided that notice
of their selection is given to CSATF prior to the appointment of the
arbitrator next in rotation.
The expedited arbitration hearing shall be presided over
by a neutral arbitrator assigned from the panel of neutral arbitrators. The
IATSE and CSATF shall schedule the grievances to be heard in order of
receipt. The grievances must be heard by the assigned arbitrator unless
that individual becomes unavailable, in which instance the next
- 96 -

--- PAGE 170 of 277 ---

arbitrator in the rotation shall hear the grievance. If either party intends
to be represented by outside counsel at the expedited arbitration hearing,
then such party must notify the opposing party within two (2) working
days after the hearing date for the expedited arbitration has been
determined. The parties, who may be represented by outside counsel,
will not file post-hearing briefs, but may, prior to or during the hearing,
present a written statement of the facts. If either party so desires, a
stenographic record may be made and that party shall pay for the
transcript. In such cases, the transcript shall be solely for the use of the
party requesting it and shall not be used to delay a decision in the matter.
The two preceding sentences shall not apply to roster placement nor
roster removal arbitrations, for which no stenographic record shall be
made. The neutral arbitrator shall have sole authority to rule on all
motions and decide the case.
The writing of an opinion will be at the discretion of the
neutral arbitrator. The decision of the arbitrator, which shall be issued
orally and confirmed in writing if requested by either party at the
conclusion of the hearing, or in writing within three (3) days from the
conclusion of the hearing (the choice being at the sole discretion of the
arbitrator) shall be final and binding upon the parties and any employees
concerned. The neutral arbitrator shall have the power to determine only
the specific grievance or dispute and, when appropriate, award wage
adjustments or damages consistent with the contract, in an amount not to
exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000), but shall not have the power
to amend, modify or effect a change in any of the provisions of this
Agreement, nor to determine jurisdictional or technological change
disputes. The decision of the neutral arbitrator shall be non-precedential
and his decision and/or opinion, if any, shall not be offered or admitted
into evidence in any other proceeding other than: (1) a judicial action
seeking confirmation, correction or vacation of said decision; or (2) a
grievance or arbitration proceeding involving the same Producer and
Local Union.
Fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne
equally by the parties to the dispute. All other costs shall be borne by
the party incurring the same.
The bills of the arbitrator, together with a completed
information form, shall be sent by the arbitrator to the IATSE and the
Producer involved in the expedited arbitration with copies to CSATF.
The information form shall be jointly prepared by the IATSE and
CSATF.
The neutral arbitrator shall proceed to hear a dispute
properly before him under this provision of expedited arbitration,
notwithstanding the fact that a similar case may be pending in a regular
arbitration.
- 97 -

--- PAGE 171 of 277 ---

(b) Regular Arbitration - The aggrieved party may elect to
proceed to regular arbitration within ten (10) working days following the
Step Two meeting or within ten (10) working days following the
cancellation of the Step Two meeting.
The IATSE and the Producers agree to establish a panel
of individuals with recognized experience as professional labor
arbitrators as members of a standing panel of neutral arbitrators. The
panel shall comprise an odd number of arbitrators.
If demand is served for regular arbitration, then the
parties shall select a sole arbitrator to hear and determine the grievance
by mutual agreement. If the parties cannot agree to the arbitrator to be
appointed, then each party shall have the right to alternately strike an
arbitrator's name from the panel until such time as one arbitrator is left
and the remaining arbitrator shall be selected and appointed as the
arbitrator in the proceedings.
The parties shall select the arbitrator within five (5)
working days after the demand for regular arbitration has been served.
The parties may, by mutual agreement, select the arbitrator outside of
the panel of neutral arbitrators or utilize the list of arbitrators obtained
from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
Such hearing shall be held within fourteen (14) days
after the arbitrator is selected, at such time and place as the arbitrator
shall determine. If the arbitrator so selected is unable or unwilling to
undertake the arbitration within the time limit herein provided, another
arbitrator shall be selected from such list. The decision of the arbitrator
shall be rendered in writing, stating his reasons for the award, within
thirty (30) days after the submission of the grievance for decision. The
arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding upon the parties thereto
and upon any employees concerned. The arbitrator shall have the power
to determine the specific grievance or dispute, but shall not have the
power to amend, modify or effect a change in any of the provisions of
the Agreement, nor to determine jurisdictional disputes.
Fees and expenses of the arbitrator and cost of a court
reporter and original transcript, when jointly requested, shall be borne
equally by the parties to the dispute; otherwise, the party making such
request shall pay for it. All other costs shall be borne by the party
incurring same.
(c) Claims - Any claims for the payment of wages or
severance pay, not presented under Step One within three hundred sixty-
five (365) consecutive days after the employee is entitled to such wages
or severance pay, shall be deemed to be waived. Any dispute as to the
correct amount of payment of holiday or vacation pay, not presented
- 98 -

--- PAGE 172 of 277 ---

under Step One within three hundred sixty-five (365) consecutive days
after March 15 of the calendar year next following the calendar year in
which such holiday or vacation pay, as the case may be, was earned,
shall be deemed to be waived.
Any other claim or grievance not presented under Step
One, within (i) sixty (60) calendar days after the occurrence of the
subject matter of the grievance or (ii) within sixty (60) calendar days
after the employee or the Union has had a reasonable opportunity to
become aware of the occurrence, whichever of (i) or (ii) is the later (but
in any event not to exceed three hundred sixty-five (365) calendar days
after the occurrence), shall be deemed to be waived. Time on distant
location shall not be included in this period.
For the purpose of this Article, "aggrieved party" shall
mean the Producer or the Union acting on its own behalf or on the behalf
of an employee covered by this Agreement.
(d) In General - The time periods provided for herein may
be extended by mutual written consent of the parties.
(e) Scheduling - In scheduling any grievance in Step Two
or Step Three, preference shall be given to any grievance involving the
discharge of an employee or a grievance involving the Industry
Experience Roster.
(f) Disciplinary Memos - Disciplinary memos issued to an
employee are admissible evidence in a grievance and/or arbitration
proceeding. However, such disciplinary memoranda, other than those
resulting in a suspension or discharge, issued more than two (2) years
prior to the incident or events giving rise to said grievance shall not be
admissible.
(g) An arbitration award issued in either expedited or
regular arbitration proceedings or a final and binding award rendered in
Step Two of the grievance procedure which requires the payment of a
specific sum of money shall be paid within thirty (30) days of the date of
the award. If payment is not made within said period, interest shall
accrue on the sum(s) due from the date of the award at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month.
If a calculation is required to determine the specific
amount(s) due under the award, the Producer shall calculate such
amount(s) and shall notify the other party of the specific sum(s) due
within sixty (60) days of the date of the award. If such calculation is not
made or if notice is not given as required, interest shall accrue on the
sum(s) due from the date of the award at a rate of one percent (1%) per
month. If, after calculation, the parties disagree on the sum(s) due, or if
- 99 -

--- PAGE 173 of 277 ---

the amount(s) due and owing under the award cannot be calculated
within the sixty-day period as a result of factors beyond the control of
the Producer, then no interest shall accrue upon the sum(s) due.
XXXIII. Employee Assistance Program for Drug and Alcohol
Abuse
The Producers endorse the concept of the IATSE and Basic
Crafts for providing an employee assistance program for drug and
alcohol abuse problems. Recognizing that such a program is best
administered under the auspices of the Motion Picture Industry Health
Plan, the Producers, in conjunction with the IATSE and Basic Crafts,
hereby recommend to the Board of Directors of the Motion Picture
Industry Health Plan that such an employee assistance program be added
to the benefits provided by the Health Plan. The Producers and the
Union agree that among the resources to be considered by the Health
Fund Directors in implementing this program is the existing program of
the Motion Picture and Television Fund, Alcoholics Anonymous and
Narcotics Anonymous.
An employee who has an alcohol or drug abuse problem
which interferes with job performance or attendance will be disciplined
in accordance with normal disciplinary procedures. In such cases,
before an employee is discharged or disciplinary action is taken, the
Producer will give advance notice to the applicable Local Union and will
meet or confer with such Local Union representative. As a part of those
procedures or as an alternative thereto, such an employee may be
referred to counseling through a qualified employee assistance program.
Any employee who refuses to accept treatment through such a program
or who is again disciplined or discharged pursuant to this subsection by
his/her employer for unsatisfactory job performance or other misconduct
arising out of or resulting from drug or alcohol abuse shall not be
entitled to have the second or subsequent disciplinary action(s) reviewed
pursuant to the grievance and arbitration procedure. Notwithstanding
the participation by any employee in an employee assistance program
created pursuant to this Agreement, the Producers and the IATSE, its
Local Unions and the Basic Crafts recognize that each employee is and
remains responsible for his/her own satisfactory job performance.
XXXIV. Loan-outs
The Producer may utilize the services of an employee on a
loan-out basis for work covered by the Basic Agreement, the Videotape
Agreement and the West Coast Studio Local Agreements (Applicable
Agreements) under the following conditions:
- 100 -

--- PAGE 174 of 277 ---

(a) All seniority rights and terms of the Industry
Experience Roster of the Basic Agreement and Paragraph 68 of the
Local Agreements shall be fully applicable to the use of the services of
the employee on loan-out.
(b) With respect to compensation and conditions under the
Applicable Agreements, the Producer shall provide at least the minimum
compensation and conditions under the Applicable Agreements to the
loan-out company, but shall not be responsible for payment by the loan-
out company to its employee.
(c) Any claims or disputes between the employee on loan-
out and the Producer regarding salaries or terms and conditions of
employment that would be covered by the grievance and arbitration
provisions of the Applicable Agreements if the employee had been hired
directly by the Producer shall be subject to such grievance and
arbitration provisions with the right of the IATSE and the Local Unions
to file grievances on behalf of employee on loan-out.
(d) With respect to pension and health and contract services
administration, during such time as an employee is engaged by a
borrowing Producer through the employee's loan-out company, the
borrowing Producer shall make pension and health and CSATF
contributions directly to the Motion Picture Industry Health Plan and the
Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan on behalf of the employee so
employed based upon hours worked or guaranteed, whichever is greater.
Contributions may not be made by loan-out companies.
(e) A Producer who borrows an employee from a loan-out
company under this section, whose employment if directly by the
Producer would have been covered by the Applicable Agreements, shall,
within ten (10) days after the execution of the agreement covering the
loan-out transaction, give the IATSE a written notice of the transaction
including the names of the loan-out company and the employee loaned
out to the Producer. An inadvertent failure by the Producer to give such
notice shall not be deemed to be a breach of the Applicable Agreements.
"Loan-out company" for purposes of this Article is defined as
a company controlled by the loaned out employee, who is the only
employee of the loan-out company who performs work covered by the
Applicable Agreements.
- 101 -

--- PAGE 175 of 277 ---

XXXV. Employer in Default
The IATSE, the Basic Crafts and the AMPTP agree to
develop procedures designed to preclude employers who are in default
on wage payments and/or trust fund contributions and who cease
business from returning to the industry without curing the default(s).
XXXVI. Principle of Assistance
The IATSE and its West Coast Studio Locals hereby reaffirm
the past practice of assistance in the performance of bargaining unit
work among and between the various crafts and classifications of
employees in said unit. The IATSE will notify its members that this
principle of assistance is so reaffirmed and recognized. This principle is
reaffirmed by both parties for the objective of encouraging the
continuation and establishment of motion picture production under the
IATSE Basic Agreement in Los Angeles County, California.
XXXVII. Designating Responsible Employer
The IATSE, the Basic Crafts and the AMPTP agree to
develop a procedure to be used whenever more than one employer is
involved in the production of a motion picture covered by this
Agreement for designating the employer responsible for compliance
with the obligations set forth in the various Local Agreements.
XXXVIII. Parking and Transportation
Issues relating to parking shall be referred to the IATSE-
AMPTP Annual Meetings.
XXXIX. Cancellation of Calls/Fractional Payroll Weeks
Committee
A committee shall be formulated with the object of
standardizing, to the extent possible, the contract provisions in the West
Coast Studio Local Agreements governing cancellation of calls and
fractional payroll weeks.
- 102 -

--- PAGE 176 of 277 ---

XL. Payroll Companies
The terms and conditions of the IATSE Payroll Companies'
Memorandum Agreement (which are attached hereto as Exhibit "A")
shall apply to payroll companies who are bound or signatory to this
Basic Agreement.
XLI. Child Care Centers
The IATSE and the AMPTP shall address the issue of
establishing child care centers with individual employers on a Company-
by-Company basis.
XLII. Change of Name by Producer
If the signatory Producer intends to change its name, written
notice of the proposed changes shall be promptly given to the IATSE.
XLIII. Low Budget Features
The IATSE shall give good faith consideration on a case-by-
case basis to requests for special conditions for low budget features
committed to be produced in Los Angeles or with a Los Angeles-based
crew.
XLIV. Guarantees of Employment
The parties hereby confirm the following: The guaranteed
length of employment shall be daily or weekly. A guarantee for a longer
term shall be specifically set forth in writing. An employee may be
replaced following completion of the guaranteed period of employment.
XLV. Payroll Deposit
In order to secure performance of the Producer's payroll
obligations under the Basic Agreement, the Videotape Agreement and
the West Coast Studio Local Agreements, the parties agree as follows:
(a) In the event that a Producer (1) has filed for bankruptcy
protection or had a trustee/receiver appointed to handle its affairs within
five (5) years prior to the commencement of principal photography on a
given production; (2) has no prior history with the IATSE; or (3) fails to
make payroll in a given payroll period, the IATSE may require such
- 103 -

--- PAGE 177 of 277 ---

Producer to deposit with a payroll company of the Producer's choosing
an amount equal to two (2) weeks of estimated payroll plus two (2)
weeks of pension, health and IAP contributions for covered employees.
Such amount shall be used solely for the purpose of satisfying amounts
owed to covered employees and/or benefit plan(s), as applicable, under
this Basic Agreement, the Videotape Agreement and the West Coast
Studio Local Agreements.
(b) The Producer shall provide the IATSE with written
verification of the payroll company's consent to hold the deposit, which
must be executed by the payroll company.
(c) No later than four (4) weeks after the completion of
principal photography for the production, the IATSE shall advise the
Producer of any outstanding payroll obligations to the employees
employed on the production and/or the respective benefit plan(s). Upon
the expiration of such four (4) week period, the payroll company, with
the approval of the IATSE, shall remit the amounts due for any
undisputed items to the employee(s) to whom and/or benefit plan(s) to
which such amounts are due and shall remit the balance of the deposit to
the Producer, less (1) an amount sufficient to pay the disputed payroll
items, if any, and (2) an amount equal to two (2) weeks of estimated
payroll, plus two (2) weeks of pension, health and IAP contributions, for
post-production employees who remain on the payroll of the production,
which amounts shall remain deposited with the payroll company.
(d) No later than four (4) weeks after delivery of the final
answer print, the IATSE shall advise the Producer of any outstanding
payroll obligations to the post-production employees employed on the
production and/or the respective benefit plan(s). Upon the expiration of
such four (4) week period, the payroll company, with the approval of the
IATSE, shall remit the amounts due for any undisputed items to the
employee(s) to whom and/or benefit plan(s) to which such amounts are
due and shall remit the balance of the deposit to the Producer, less an
amount sufficient to pay the disputed payroll items, if any.
(e) Any amounts relating to disputed wage claims plus
pension, health and IAP contributions thereon shall remain deposited
with the payroll company pending the settlement or resolution pursuant
to Article 7 of the applicable Local Agreement of claims relating thereto.
For purposes of any arbitration hereunder, the arbitrator shall have the
power to determine only claims relating to the payment of wages and
benefit contributions thereon.
(f) The foregoing shall not apply (1) to a Producer
signatory to the Basic Agreement which, together with its related or
affiliated entities, has made Supplemental Markets payments to the
Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans in an aggregate
- 104 -

--- PAGE 178 of 277 ---

amount of not less than fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000) (or has
made Post '60s payments of not less than six million dollars
($6,000,000)) during the three (3) year period beginning January 1, 1994
and ending on December 31, 1996, or in any subsequent three (3)
consecutive year period, or (2) to any of its related or affiliated entities.
(g) In lieu of making a deposit as required above, a
signatory producer may obtain and provide to the IATSE a letter of
guarantee from any commercial financial institution or from a Producer,
or its related or affiliated entities, that meets the requirements of
subparagraph (f) above, stating that it unconditionally guarantees the
fulfillment of payroll obligations and benefit contributions due
employees under the Basic Agreement with respect to a particular
motion picture.
(h) In the event that an Employer fails to make a required
deposit as set forth herein, the IATSE may direct the covered employees
to withhold services from that Producer on the production for which the
deposit is sought until the deposit is made or a letter of guarantee is
provided as set forth in subparagraph (g) above.
XLVI. Paid Sick Leave
(a) Accrual. Eligible employees covered by the IATSE
Basic Agreement shall accrue one (1) hour of paid sick leave for every
thirty (30) hours worked for Producer, up to a maximum of forty-eight
(48) hours or six (6) days. (In lieu of the foregoing hourly accrual of
paid sick leave, and provided that advance notice is given to the
employee, a Producer may elect to provide employees, upon their
eligibility to use sick leave as provided below (i.e., upon working thirty
(30) days for the Producer and after their ninetieth (90th) day of such
employment with the Producer (based on days worked or guaranteed),
with a bank of twenty-four (24) hours or three (3) days of sick leave per
year, such year to be measured, as designated by the Producer, as either
a calendar year or starting from the employee's anniversary date. Under
this elected option, such banked sick leave days may not be carried over
to the following year.) Employees employed outside California shall be
eligible for such sick leave commencing February 1, 2022.
(b) To be eligible to accrue paid sick leave, the employee
must have worked for the Producer for at least thirty (30) days within a
one (1) year period, such year to be measured, as designated by the
Producer, as either a calendar year or starting from the employee's
anniversary date. Sick leave may be used in minimum increments of
four (4) hours upon oral or written request after the eligible employee
has been employed by the Producer for ninety (90) days (based on days
worked or guaranteed), such period to be measured, as designated by the
- 105 -

--- PAGE 179 of 277 ---

Producer, as either a calendar year or starting from the employee's
anniversary date. Reasonable advance notification of the need for sick
leave is required if the use is foreseeable; otherwise, notice is required as
soon as practicable. Sick days accrued on an hourly basis shall carry
over to the following year of employment; however, the Producer may
limit the use of such accrued time to no more than twenty-four (24)
hours or three (3) days during each year of employment as defined by
the Employer in advance. To the extent the employee is eligible for paid
sick leave in a jurisdiction with a law that cannot be waived in a
collective bargaining agreement, any sick leave paid pursuant to the law
shall count towards satisfying the Producer’s obligations to provide paid
sick leave under this Article XLVI.
(c) For employees employed on an hourly or daily basis, a
day of sick leave pay shall be equal to eight (8) hours' pay at the
employee's straight time hourly rate. If a four (4) hour increment of sick
leave is taken, the employee shall be paid four (4) hours of pay at his
straight time hourly rate. For weekly employees (including "on call"
employees), a day of sick leave pay shall be equal to one-fifth (1/5th) of
the employee's weekly rate under the studio minimum wage scales or
one-sixth (1/6th) of the employee's weekly rate under the distant location
minimum wage scales (or fifty percent (50%) thereof for a four (4) hour
increment of sick leave taken). Replacements for weekly employees
(including "on call" employees) may be hired on a pro rata basis of the
weekly rate regardless of any contrary provision in this Agreement. The
employee shall not be required to find a replacement as a condition of
exercising his right to paid sick leave.
(d) Sick leave may be taken for the diagnosis, care or
treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventive care for, the
employee or the employee's "family member."23 Sick leave also may be
taken by an employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual
assault or stalking.
(e) Accrued, unused sick leave is not paid out on
termination, resignation or other separation from employment. If an
employee is rehired by the Producer within one (1) year of the
employee's separation from employment, the employee's accrued and
unused sick leave shall be reinstated, and the employee may begin using
the accrued sick leave upon rehire if the employee was previously
eligible to use the sick leave or once the employee becomes eligible as
provided above.
23 "Family member" means any of the following: (1) a biological, adopted or foster child,
stepchild, legal ward or a child to whom the employee stands in loco parentis; (2) a biological,
adoptive or foster parent, stepparent or legal guardian of the employee or the employee's spouse
or registered domestic partner or a person who stood in loco parentis when the employee was a
minor child; (3) a spouse; (4) a registered domestic partner; (5) a grandparent; (6) a grandchild;
or (7) a sibling.
- 106 -

--- PAGE 180 of 277 ---

(f) Producer shall include in the employee's start
paperwork the contact information for the designated Producer
representative whom the employee may contact to confirm eligibility
and the amount of accrued sick leave available. Such start paperwork
shall also include information with respect to the year period (i.e.,
calendar year or the employee's anniversary date) that the Producer
selected to measure the thirty (30) day and ninety (90) day eligibility
periods and the cap on accrual set forth in subparagraph (b) above or,
alternatively, if the Producer elected to provide employees with a sick
leave bank, the year period (i.e., calendar year or the employee's
anniversary date) that the Producer selected for the bank of three (3) sick
days as provided in subparagraph (a) above. Producer also shall notify
the West Coast office of the IATSE of the name and contact information
of the designated Producer representative.
(g) Any Producer that, as of June 30, 2015, had a sick leave
policy, or paid leave or paid time off policy that permits the use of paid
sick time with respect to eligible employees working in California or
that, as of February 1, 2022, has a sick leave policy, or paid leave or paid
time off policy that permits the use of paid sick time for all other eligible
employees, may continue such policy in lieu of the foregoing. Nothing
shall prevent a Producer from negotiating a sick leave policy with better
terms and conditions. There shall be no discrimination or retaliation
against any employee for exercising his or her right to use paid sick
leave.
(h) Any dispute with respect to sick leave for employees
covered under the West Coast Studio Local Agreements shall be subject
to the grievance and arbitration procedures provided therein.
XLVII. Waiver of New York City Earned Safe and Sick Time Act
and Similar Laws
The Union expressly waives, to the full extent permitted by law,
application of the following to all employees employed under this
Agreement: the New York City Earned Safe and Sick Time Act of 2013
(N.Y.C. Admin. Code, Section 20-911 et seq.); the New York State Paid
Sick Leave Law of 2020 (New York Labor Law Section 196-B); the
Chicago Paid Sick Leave Ordinance (Section 6-105-045 of the
Municipal Code of Chicago); the Cook County Earned Sick Leave
Ordinance (Chapter 42, Article I, Section 42-1 et seq. of the Cook
County Code); the San Francisco Paid Sick Leave Ordinance (San
Francisco Administrative Code Section 12W); the San Francisco Public
Health Emergency Leave Ordinance (San Francisco Police Code Article
33P); the Paid Sick Leave Ordinance of Berkeley, California (Chapter
13.100 of the Berkeley Municipal Code); all requirements pertaining to
“paid sick leave” in Chapter 37 of Title 5 of the Municipal Code of
- 107 -

--- PAGE 181 of 277 ---

Emeryville, California, (including, but not limited to, Chapter 37.01(e),
37.03, 37.07(a)(1)(ii)(B) and 37.07(f)); the City of Los Angeles
Emergency Order regarding Supplemental Paid Leave Due to COVID-
19 (amended June 24, 2021); the Los Angeles County COVID-19
Worker Protection Ordinance (Title 8, Chapter 8.200 of the Los Angeles
County Code); Los Angeles County Employee Paid Leave for Expanded
Vaccine Access Ordinance (Title 8, Chapter 8.205 of the Los Angeles
County Code); the Oakland Paid Sick Leave Law (Section 5.92.030 of
the Oakland Municipal and Planning Code); the West Hollywood Sick
Pay Ordinance (Section 5.130.030 of the West Hollywood Municipal
Code); the Santa Monica Paid Sick Leave Ordinance (Chapter 4.62.025
of the Santa Monica Municipal Code); the Tacoma Paid Sick Leave
Ordinance (Title 18, Chapter 18.10 of the Tacoma Municipal Code); the
Arizona Earned Paid Sick Time Law (A.R.S. Section 23-371 et seq.); the
New Jersey Paid Sick Leave Act (N.J.S.A. 34:11D-1 et seq.); the
Bloomfield Sick Leave for Private Employees Ordinance (Chapter 463
of the Code of the Township of Bloomfield, New Jersey); the East
Orange Paid Sick Leave Ordinance (Chapter 140 of the Code of the City
of East Orange, New Jersey); the Jersey City Paid Sick Time Law
(Chapter 4 of the Code of the City of Jersey City, New Jersey); the New
Brunswick Paid Sick Time and Paid Safe Time Leave Ordinance
(Chapter 8.56 of the Revised General Ordinances of the City of New
Brunswick, New Jersey); the Plainfield Sick Leave for Private
Employees and City Employees Ordinance (Chapter 8, Article 5 of the
Municipal Code of the City of Plainfield, New Jersey); the Irvington
Paid Sick Time Ordinance (Chapter 277, Article I of the Code of the
Township of Irvington, New Jersey); the Montclair Paid Sick Leave
Ordinance (Chapter 132, Article I of the Code of the Township of
Montclair, New Jersey); the Morristown Paid Sick Leave Ordinance
(Article XV, Section 2-89, et seq. of the Code of the Town of
Morristown, New Jersey; the Newark Sick Leave for Private Employees
Ordinance (Chapter 16:18 of the Code of the City of Newark, New
Jersey; the Passaic Paid Sick Leave for Private Employees Ordinance
(Chapter 128, Article I of the Code of the City of Passaic, New Jersey;
the Paterson Sick Leave for Private Employees Ordinance (Chapter 412
of the Paterson, New Jersey Code; and the Trenton Paid Sick Leave
Ordinance (Chapter 230 of the Code of the City of Trenton, New Jersey)
and any other ordinance, statute or law requiring paid sick leave that is
hereafter enacted. It is understood that the IATSE and the AMPTP shall
memorialize any such waiver for any newly-enacted law by letter
agreement.
- 108 -

--- PAGE 182 of 277 ---

XLVIII. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
(a) Statement of Commitment. Acknowledging the critical
importance of diversity, equity and inclusion in the entertainment
industry, Producers and the Union mutually reaffirm their commitment
to make good faith efforts to increase employment opportunities for
individuals from “underrepresented populations” in order to foster a
more inclusive, equitable and diverse workforce in the motion picture
industry. Historically, “underrepresented populations” have traditionally
been defined as women, racial and ethnic minorities, LGBTQIA,
persons with a disability and other protected categories; however,
underrepresented classifications may vary per craft.
In furtherance of this commitment, Producers, in
partnership with the Union, seek to create one or more diversity, equity
and inclusion initiatives that are designed to enhance employment
opportunities, as well as equip participants with the requisite knowledge,
skills and credentials to work successfully in the motion picture crafts.
(b) Self-Identification Data. During the 2021 negotiations,
the parties discussed the efforts that have been made by the Producers
and the Local Unions to obtain information about the personal
characteristics of their employees and membership through voluntary
self-identification. The IATSE, along with the Local Unions, and the
Producers recognize that obtaining such information is useful in
expanding access to employment opportunities for under-represented
groups and for tracking the success of their efforts to diversify the
workforce. To that end, the IATSE and the Local Unions agree to
encourage their members to voluntarily self-identify when requested to
do so by either a Local Union or a Producer, including when members
are completing new membership paperwork for a Local Union or start
paperwork for a Producer. The IATSE and the Local Unions further
agree to share with the AMPTP any diversity statistics that they
currently possess or develop in the future.
(c) Training Program Opportunities. The joint labor-
management Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Task Force established by
the Sideletter re Diversity, Equity and Inclusion shall form a
subcommittee, consisting of IATSE representatives and Producer
representatives (hereafter “committee”), to develop and oversee ongoing
program(s) for on-the-job training within the motion picture industry in
the various job classifications covered by the IATSE Basic Agreement
and West Coast Studio Local Agreements. The types of training
programs established may vary depending on the experience of the
candidates and the requirements of the classification for which the
training is provided, and may take into consideration training programs
already in existence. The goal of the committee is to greatly expand
training program opportunities to enhance employment for individuals
- 109 -

--- PAGE 183 of 277 ---

who are under-represented in this industry. The committee shall meet
within thirty (30) days after ratification of the Basic Agreement.
(1) Working Internship Program. It is expected that
all Local Unions with roster classifications will participate in the
following working internship program for entry-level rostered
classifications, which will operate in addition to existing training
programs.
(i) Outreach. The committee will identify and
coordinate with various established local community groups, along with
the Producers’ studio departments involved in recruitment and any other
appropriate employment resources, for the purpose of identifying
candidates for training programs from under-served communities and/or
currently under-represented groups, taking into consideration local
hiring demographics. Producer may request the resumes of candidates
and may separately interview them before placement with the company.
Each Producer may select from among these candidates (or from other
sources) to fill working intern assignments on that company's
productions. Producer shall consult and work cooperatively with the
Union should it decide to select candidates from a third-party source not
previously identified by the committee.
Individuals enrolled in existing Local Union
training programs, training programs through vocational or educational
institutions such as Hollywood CPR and LA Trade Tech (and other
mutually agreed-upon sources) or individuals identified by Producer or
the Union, will continue to be candidates eligible to participate in
working intern assignments with Producers or other training in
conjunction with such programs.
(ii) The training program(s) will include pre-
training by community organizations and/or others, such as pre-training
to teach set protocol, use of equipment, department information, call
sheets, safety and other information. All working interns shall be
required to take CSATF Safety Training, HP1 and A training before
commencing work, which may be accessed through CSATF and IATTF.
(iii) The Local Union(s) commit to support
working interns prior to and/or during the working intern’s assignment.
(iv) Recognizing the value of a mutual
commitment to the success of the working intern, Producers agree that
working intern(s) will be assigned to a Department in consultation with
and with the support of the Department Head (or other appropriate
bargaining unit personnel in the absence of a Department Head). The
IATSE and the Local Unions agree to encourage their members to
participate in and support the working intern program(s). Once a
- 110 -

--- PAGE 184 of 277 ---

working intern is placed within a Department, the Department Head and
other appropriate bargaining unit personnel shall assist in mentoring,
training and developing the working intern, and other crew members
likewise shall facilitate opportunities for the working intern to learn.
(v) Subject to subparagraph (iv) above, and
after the working intern completes any pre-training and/or craft
orientation, the Producer shall assign the working intern to a production.
The working intern may be assigned work on different productions,
including productions of entities related to or affiliated with the
Producer. During the assignment, the working intern may learn and
perform bargaining unit work within an otherwise fully staffed
department. Working interns in this capacity will not displace any crew
members working under the terms of the applicable IATSE collective
bargaining agreement and will be an additional position in the
department. By way of example, if a particular IATSE Local #80-
represented grip crew is customarily staffed with four grips, that crew
will continue to be staffed with four regular full-time grips and a
working intern may be assigned to work with them.
(vi) During their assignments, working interns
must complete a specified number of days (which need not be
consecutive) to the satisfaction of the Producer to qualify to work under
the minimum rates, terms and conditions of the particular IATSE Local
Agreement for the roster classification for which they have gained
working intern experience. The committee shall determine the
minimum number of days necessary for working interns (other than
individuals participating in a vocational/educational training program
described in subparagraph (2) below) to qualify for such treatment,
which shall be no less than thirty (30) and no more than sixty (60) within
a twelve (12) consecutive month period. The Producer may determine,
in consultation with the Department Head or other appropriate
personnel, that additional training is warranted and appropriate. It is
understood that the foregoing applies without limitation to the following:
(A) Local #44 Prop Maker or Property
Person classifications;
(B) Local #80 Grip and Crafts Service
Person classifications;
(C) Local #728 Entry Level classification;
(D) Local #729 Entry Level Painter
classification;
(E) Local #600 Film Loader classification;
- 111 -

--- PAGE 185 of 277 ---

(F) Local #695 Utility Sound Technician
Entry Level (Y-7a) and Video Assist (Y-7) classifications;
(G) Local #705 classifications; and
(H) Local #871 Script Supervisor
classification.
Additionally, the remaining Local Unions
with roster classifications (Local #700, Local #706 and Local #800) will
meet with the committee to determine the minimum number of days
necessary for working interns to qualify to work under the minimum
rates, terms and conditions of the particular IATSE Local Agreement for
the roster classification for which they have gained working intern
experience (other than individuals participating in a
vocational/educational training program described in subparagraph (2)
below).
(vii) Producer shall notify CSATF once an
individual has completed the working internship to the satisfaction of the
Producer. To comply with its commitment set forth in subparagraph
(viii) below, the Producer may then assign the individual to work under
the minimum rates, terms and conditions of the particular IATSE Local
Agreement for which they have gained working intern experience,
notwithstanding the availability of eligible individuals from the Industry
Experience Roster (“IER”). The individual may be assigned in the same
department in which he or she had been working or on another
production or in another assignment. The individual will be assigned as
a member of the regular crew or the department but will not bump an
established member of the regular crew or the department. In the event
of a layoff of the regular crew for lack of work, the individual shall be
laid off before a rostered member of the regular crew.
(viii) Producer commits to offer employment to
individuals who completed its working internship program to its
satisfaction and who continue to perform to the satisfaction of the
Producer to enable them, within a twelve (12) consecutive month period
following completion of the working internship, to fulfill the roster
placement requirements of thirty (30) days of work (which need not be
consecutive) in the classification for which they have gained working
intern experience on a production that would qualify for roster
placement. The Producer may fulfill its commitment by offering the
individual employment in an open position in the same department in
which he or she had been working, on the same or on another production
or another assignment for the Producer or for an entity related to or
affiliated with the Producer. The Producer’s commitment does not apply
to an individual who fails to perform to the satisfaction of the Producer
or who rejects an offer of employment from the Producer.
- 112 -

--- PAGE 186 of 277 ---

The individual must meet the other
requirements of the applicable West Coast Studio Local Agreements
concerning union security and safety, harassment prevention and other
training prerequisites for roster status, if not completed already, in order
to be placed on the IER.
(2) The parties reaffirm their commitment to seek
under-represented individuals for on-the-job training through Hollywood
CPR and to expand such programs to other mutually-agreed upon
vocational or educational institutions or organizations. Individuals
selected for training from such programs shall have the length of the
working intern assignment determined by the requirements of the
vocational/educational training program. Upon satisfactory completion
of the vocational/educational training program, the individuals are
immediately eligible to apply for placement on the IER, provided that
the individual fulfills the other requirements for roster placement (such
as applicable safety, harassment prevention and other training
prerequisites).
(3) CSATF shall keep a publicly available record of
individuals who successfully completed the training programs as well as
a record of those who thereafter have secured roster status. CSATF will
share these records with IATTF.
(4) [Funding/cost-sharing of the training program(s)
to be determined.]
(5) The parties agree that the foregoing training
program(s) (and any other training programs developed by the
committee) is (are) not the only training program(s) permitted under this
Agreement; rather, the parties may mutually agree to additional training
program(s) on a Producer-by-Producer basis with the same goals and
roster placement provisions. Any existing Union-Producer training
program covering the job classifications covered under the IATSE Basic
Agreement may continue.
(6) In connection with the agreed-upon training
programs, the bargaining parties agree to make conforming changes to
the preference of employment and seniority provisions of the West
Coast Studio Local Agreements, as may be required, to provide that
individuals may participate in an agreed-upon training program as
outlined above and are eligible upon completion of such program for
placement on the applicable Industry Experience Roster after successful
completion of the requisite safety, harassment prevention and other
training necessary for roster placement and/or status.
- 113 -

--- PAGE 187 of 277 ---

(7) The committee shall discuss developing training
program(s) for under-represented groups or under-served communities
for non-rostered positions under the Local #600 Amendment Agreement
and/or the Local #700 Amendment Agreement and/or outside Los
Angeles County under the Local #800 Art Directors Agreement.
(8) The parties agree to create a joint mentorship
program to foster connections between mentors and individuals from
under-represented groups or under-served communities entering the
industry workforce through the programs described in this provision
with the goal of expanding access to those individual’s opportunities for
employment in the industry.
(d) Centralized Off-Roster Hiring. The parties agree to
develop a process to centralize off-roster hiring of individuals from
under-represented groups or under-served communities when the roster
is exhausted with a target date for implementation of no later than
January 1, 2022.
The centralized process should include the following
elements: (1) development of a centralized resource accessible to both
the Local Unions that provide dispatch or referral services and the
Producers to identify and facilitate the hiring of individuals from under-
represented groups and under-served communities, including those who
have not yet met, but are on their way to meeting, the requisite days of
work experience to join the applicable Industry Experience Roster; (2) a
commitment by the Local Unions that provide dispatch or referral
services to dispatch or refer exclusively from a list of candidates
provided by the centralized resource when the roster classification is
exhausted; (3) a commitment by the Local Unions that provide dispatch
or referral services to track the hiring of those individuals and report
hires to the centralized resource for Producers to access; and (4) good
faith efforts by Producers to consider the off-roster hiring of individuals
from under-represented groups. Producer shall retain the right to select
from the centralized resource or elsewhere.
(e) Prior Experience Placement. In recognition of the
parties' desire to take more immediate action to remove barriers and
facilitate employment of individuals from under-served communities or
under-represented groups with experience in the entertainment industry
and related fields, the parties agree to the following:
(1) Producers may hire non-rostered individuals from
under-served communities or under-represented groups who have prior
experience in a job classification that is related or substantially similar to
the one for which the Producer is hiring (“Prior-Experienced
Individuals”) to work in a rostered classification under the Basic
Agreement. The prior experience need not have been acquired with a
- 114 -

--- PAGE 189 of 277 ---

PAYROLL COMPANIES' AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made and entered into between _____________
___________________________ (herein "The Payroll Company"), and
the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (herein
"IATSE"), an unincorporated association, upon the following terms,
conditions and recitals:
I. The Payroll Company is a payroll service for the motion
picture and television industries and is an employer member of the
multi-employer bargaining unit represented by the Alliance of Motion
Picture and Television Producers, Inc., described in Article V of the
Producer-I.A.T.S.E. & M.P.T.A.A.C. Basic Agreement of 2021 to which
The Payroll Company is a signatory.
II. The Payroll Company's employment of persons subject to the
Basic Agreement and its responsibility to the IATSE therefor shall be
governed by the following:
A. The Payroll Company shall give advance notice to the
IATSE of its involvement in connection with any motion picture or
television production when services falling within the work jurisdiction
of the Basic Agreement are to be performed. Said advance notice shall
be given as soon as practicable, but in no event later than the Monday
immediately following the issuance of the first payroll covering
employees under the Basic Agreement. Said notice may be oral and
confirmed in writing within two (2) working days thereafter and shall
include the following:
1. Name of production company and producer;
2. Title of production;
3. Nature of production (Theatrical, Television,
Commercial, Videotape);
4. Scheduled pre-production, production, and post-
production dates;
5. Production locations; and
6. Whether The Payroll Company is the "primary" or
"secondary" employer as those terms are herein
defined.
The Payroll Company, in addition to the foregoing
notice to the IATSE, shall also, on its own behalf as a "primary"
employer, comply with any notification provisions contained within any
IATSE Local Union Agreement subject to the Basic Agreement or,
EXHIBIT "A"
- 116 -

--- PAGE 190 of 277 ---

when the Payroll Company is the "secondary" employer, require the
"primary" employer to comply therewith.
In the event a Payroll Company consistently fails to
give notice as required by this Section, then an arbitrator in an
arbitration proceeding shall have the authority to issue and fashion an
appropriate remedy.
Absent receipt of the aforementioned notice from the
Payroll Company, The Payroll Company will not be deemed to have any
responsibility for any production merely because someone other than a
designated representative of The Payroll Company represents to the
IATSE or any of its affiliated Locals that it is utilizing the services of
The Payroll Company unless The Payroll Company is in fact providing
such services and failed to give the notice called for herein.
Notwithstanding any other provision herein, in the event The Payroll
Company fails to give the advance notice as above required as to more
than one (1) production, the IATSE shall have the right to cancel this
Agreement as to such Payroll Company upon fifteen (15) days written
notice. The IATSE shall notify The Payroll Company of the first
violation, which may be oral and confirmed in writing later.
B. The scope of The Payroll Company's responsibility to
the IATSE and to persons performing services subject to the Basic
Agreement shall be based on whether The Payroll Company is deemed a
"primary" employer or a "secondary" employer insofar as the employees
performing such services are concerned.
1. The Payroll Company shall be deemed the
"primary" employer when it is providing services to a customer
producer/employer which is not a member of the multi-employer
bargaining unit described in Article V of the Basic Agreement.
(a) In its position as a "primary" employer, The
Payroll Company shall provide services to a customer producer/
employer only on the basis that persons working in the crafts and
classifications designated in the IATSE Basic Agreement are employed
under the IATSE Basic Agreement to the same extent as would be
required of any other Producer signatory to the IATSE Basic Agreement.
Notwithstanding any other provision, in the
event a Payroll Company violates the above requirement as a "primary"
employer as to more than one (1) production, the IATSE shall have the
right to cancel this Agreement as to such Payroll Company upon fifteen
(15) days written notice. The IATSE shall notify The Payroll Company
of the first violation, which may be oral and confirmed in writing later.
EXHIBIT "A"
- 117 -

--- PAGE 191 of 277 ---

In the event a Payroll Company fails to
provide coverage to employees under the IATSE Basic Agreement as
required above, an arbitrator shall have the authority to issue an award as
to the full measure of damages.
(b) When a client requests a Payroll Company
to act as the primary employer for a theatrical or television motion
picture with respect to those employees engaged in IATSE-covered
classifications, The Payroll Company shall notify the IATSE of that fact
within one (1) business day after the client requests The Payroll
Company to so act as the primary employer for that picture. In the event
the IATSE is engaged in negotiations with said client, the IATSE shall
notify The Payroll Company and the AMPTP of that fact within one (1)
business day after receipt of said notice from The Payroll Company.
Thereafter, The Payroll Company shall not act as the primary employer
under this Agreement without the consent of the IATSE. If The Payroll
Company does not receive an objection from the IATSE within said one
(1) business day, The Payroll Company may act as the primary employer
under this Agreement.
(c) No contributions will be accepted from The
Payroll Company on behalf of employees employed by an employer
which is not a signatory to a collective bargaining agreement requiring
contributions to the Plans if the non-signatory employer employs one or
more "controlling employees."
A "controlling employee" is defined as any
employee who performs work within any job classification covered by a
collective bargaining agreement with a Union party to the Motion
Picture Industry Pension and/or Health Plans ("Plans") requiring
contributions to be made to the Plans and who is also an officer or
controlling shareholder of the non-signatory employer or the spouse of
such an officer or controlling shareholder. The term "controlling
shareholder" means a person who owns ten percent (10%) or more of the
voting power of the corporation.
The Payroll Company shall be required to
submit a completed Non-Signatory Employer Data Sheet in the form
required by the Plans with respect to each production or other project on
which The Payroll Company is to act as the primary employer.
2. The Payroll Company shall be deemed a
"secondary" employer when it is providing services to a customer
producer/employer which is a member of the multi-employer bargaining
unit described in Article V of the Basic Agreement and The Payroll
EXHIBIT "A"
- 118 -

--- PAGE 192 of 277 ---

Company's customer producer/employer shall be deemed the "primary"
employer in such instances.
C. In those situations in which The Payroll Company is the
primary employer, The Payroll Company shall be deemed the producer
and shall have full responsibility for compliance with all of the terms
and conditions of the Basic Agreement and applicable Local
Agreements, including compliance with requirements in the Local
Agreements relating to deal memos and personal services contracts, until
such time as The Payroll Company gives the IATSE written notice of
cancellation of its agreement with its customer producer/employer and
notwithstanding said notice of cancellation, The Payroll Company shall
remain responsible for all wages (including wages for reasonable time
spent by an employee in returning equipment or properties for which he
is responsible), fringe benefits and conditions of employment to the
effective date of the cancellation and notice to the IATSE and, on distant
location, all expenses due and costs of transportation and salaries for
such transportation time, and for any residual payments (Post '60
payments or Supplemental Market payments) resulting from the
performance of services prior to the notice of said cancellation unless
and until The Payroll Company shall be relieved of responsibility for
such residual payments pursuant to the procedures set forth in this
Exhibit "A." In addition to all other required information, The Payroll
Company shall specify in all reports to the Motion Picture Industry
Pension Plan and the Motion Picture Industry Health Plan the name of
the customer/producer employer, the title of the production and the
classification(s) of employees covered by the Trust Fund payments.
When acting as the "primary employer" for a theatrical
motion picture, The Payroll Company shall be prohibited from
processing and/or issuing any payroll checks for or on behalf of its
customer producer/employer until such time as The Payroll Company
has secured from its customer producer/employer an executed
Assumption Agreement, as provided below, and delivered same to the
Administrator of the Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans.
The Assumption Agreement shall be substantially in the following form:
"In consideration of the Agreement between the undersigned
Producer, __________________________________(herein
(insert name of Producer)
for convenience referred to as 'Producer'), and
_________________________________________________
(insert name of Payroll Company)
(herein for convenience referred to as 'The Payroll
Company'), under which The Payroll Company has agreed to
EXHIBIT "A"
- 119 -

--- PAGE 193 of 277 ---

furnish payroll services for the theatrical motion picture
presently entitled, '_________________________________'
(insert name of motion picture)
(hereinafter for convenience referred to as 'the motion
picture'), the Producer hereby agrees that the motion picture
is covered by and subject to the following agreements (check
the box(es) of those that are applicable):
□ The Producer - I.A.T.S.E. and M.P.T.A.A.C. Basic
Agreement of 2021 ('the IATSE Basic Agreement');
□ The Animation Guild, Local #839 Agreement of 2021
('the Cartoonists Agreement');
□ The Producer - Studio Transportation Drivers, Local
#399 Agreement of 2021 ('the Teamsters Agreement');
□ The Producer - International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers, Local #40 Agreement of 2021 ('the IBEW
Agreement');
□ The Producer - United Association of Journeymen and
Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry
of the United States and Canada, Local #78 Agreement
of 2021 ('the Plumbers Agreement');
□ The Producer - International Hod Carriers, Building and
Common Laborers Union, Studio Utility Employees,
Local #724 Agreement of 2021 ('the Laborers
Agreement');
□ The Producer - Operative Plasterers and Cement
Masons International Association of the United States
and Canada, Local #755 Agreement of 2021 ('the
Plasterers Agreement')
"Producer further agrees that the motion picture is covered by
and subject to the provisions of Article XIX of the IATSE
Basic Agreement, 'Post '60 Theatrical Motion Pictures,'
and/or the corresponding provisions of the other applicable
Agreements referred to above (i.e., the applicable provisions
of The Animation Guild Agreement, Article 15 of the
Teamsters Agreement, Article 15 of the IBEW Agreement,
Article 15 of the Plumbers Agreement; Article 15 of the
Laborers Agreement and Article 15 of the Plasterers
Agreement), pertaining to payments due when theatrical
EXHIBIT "A"
- 120 -

--- PAGE 194 of 277 ---

motion pictures, the principal photography of which
commenced in the period August 1, 2021 through July 31,
2024, are released to free television and to the provisions of
Article XXVIII of the IATSE Basic Agreement,
'Supplemental Markets,' and/or the corresponding provisions
of the other applicable Agreements referred to above (i.e., the
applicable provisions of The Animation Guild Agreement,
Article 21 of the Teamsters Agreement, Article 21 of the
IBEW Agreement, Article 21 of the Plumbers Agreement,
Article 21 of the Laborers Agreement and Article 21 of the
Plasterers Agreement), pertaining to payments due for the
release of theatrical motion pictures in Supplemental
Markets.
"Producer hereby agrees, expressly for the benefit of the
Motion Picture Industry Pension and Health Plans ('the
Plans') to assume the obligations of said provisions and to
make the payments to the Plans required thereby. It is
expressly understood and agreed that the rights of Producer
to exhibit or license the exhibition of such motion pictures on
free television and/or in Supplemental Markets shall be
subject to and conditioned upon payment to the Plans as
provided in the respective applicable provisions referred to
hereinabove. It is agreed that such Plans shall be entitled to
injunctive relief and damages against Producer in the event
such payments are not made.
"The Producer agrees to keep or have access to complete
records showing the income derived from the distribution of
such motion pictures to free television and/or Supplemental
Markets and the Plans shall have the right at all reasonable
times to inspect such records. The Producer shall give the
Plans prompt written notice of the date on which the motion
picture is first telecast on free television and/or is first
released in Supplemental Markets. An inadvertent failure to
comply with said notice requirements shall not constitute a
default by the Producer, provided that such failure is cured
promptly after notice thereof from the Plans.
"Producer further agrees that in the event of a sale, transfer,
license or assignment of the free television distribution rights
or the Supplemental Markets distribution rights to the above-
referenced motion picture, Producer will obtain from the
buyer, transferee, licensee or assignee an Assumption
Agreement substantially in the form set forth above and shall
provide an executed copy of such Assumption Agreement to
EXHIBIT "A"
- 121 -

--- PAGE 195 of 277 ---

the Plans. In such event, Producer shall give notice to the
Plans, within thirty (30) days of each sale, transfer, license or
assignment of such distribution rights, with the name and
address of the buyer, transferee, licensee or assignee."
Upon the execution and delivery of such Assumption
Agreement to the Administrator of the Motion Picture Industry Pension
and Health Plans, The Payroll Company shall not be further liable to the
Plans for the keeping of any records required under the "Post '60
Theatrical Motion Pictures" provisions or the "Supplemental Markets"
provisions nor for the payments required thereunder for the exhibition of
the motion picture in Supplemental Markets and/or on free television,
and the Plans shall look exclusively to the Producer or any subsequent
party last executing such an Assumption Agreement for the keeping of
such records and compliance with such payment obligations.
D. In those situations in which The Payroll Company is a
secondary employer, The Payroll Company's responsibility shall be
limited to the monies advanced by the primary employer to The Payroll
Company for wage payments, allowances, penalties, fringe benefits and
payroll taxes for payment to or on behalf of persons who performed
services subject to the Basic Agreement. Provided, however, that should
the primary employer default in its payment obligations to The Payroll
Company and The Payroll Company not promptly cancel its agreement
with the primary employer and simultaneously notify the IATSE of said
termination, as hereinafter provided, then The Payroll Company shall be
responsible for the wage payments, allowances, penalties, fringe benefits
and payroll taxes owing to or on behalf of individuals who performed
services subject to said Basic Agreement for all hours worked by said
persons through the end of the workday on which said notice or
cancellation is given to the IATSE. In such event, The Payroll Company
shall also be responsible for the payment of expenses and costs of
transportation and salaries for transportation time, but only if The
Payroll Company has expressly assumed responsibility therefor. When
The Payroll Company acts only as a secondary employer, the IATSE
shall deem The Payroll Company an agent of the primary employer and
The Payroll Company shall have no responsibility for matters outside of
its control such as, but not limited to, staffing requirements, seniority,
work rules, jurisdictional problems or residual payments (Post '60
payments or Supplemental Market payments). With reference to such
items, the IATSE shall look exclusively to the primary employer for
responsibility. Furthermore, nothing contained in this Agreement shall
in any way reduce, diminish or prejudice any legal or equitable right or
claim that the IATSE. could assert directly against any primary
employer if this Agreement did not exist.
EXHIBIT "A"
- 122 -

--- PAGE 196 of 277 ---

E. Once having given the notice to the IATSE described in
Paragraph A., the scope of The Payroll Company's responsibility as
delineated herein shall continue until such time as The Payroll Company
serves a notice of contract termination upon its customer
producer/employer and simultaneously delivers a copy of said
termination notice to the IATSE.
Except as otherwise expressly provided in Paragraph C.
above, upon delivery of said notice of termination to the IATSE, The
Payroll Company shall forthwith be relieved of all further responsibility
for services to be performed in connection with the production therein
involved on and after the day immediately following the workday on
which said notice of termination is delivered to the IATSE.
On distant location productions, reasonable notice of
termination, whenever possible, must be given to the IATSE. and
employees covered by the Basic Agreement shall be paid, in addition to
their salaries and conditions, all hotel and meal expenses and costs of
transportation and salaries for such transportation time.
F. The Payroll Company shall remit vacation and holiday
pay payments to the employees either on a weekly basis with their
paychecks or by payment in full no later than with their final paycheck
at the end of production. Any payments of unworked holiday pay made
to an employee on a production shall be credited against the 3.719%
accrual (the 4% accrual effective January 1, 2022). For the purpose of
this provision, the "end of production" is defined as: (1) for television
series, upon conclusion of the production season for episodes ordered
and produced; (2) on television "movies of the week" and theatrical
features, upon conclusion of principal photography; and (3) for post-
production, upon conclusion of post-production work.
G. This Agreement is effective for a term coinciding with
the term of the Basic Agreement to which The Payroll Company is a
party and shall be extended and renewed from time to time to the same
extent that said Basic Agreement is hereafter extended or renewed.
EXHIBIT "A"
- 123 -

--- PAGE 197 of 277 ---

IATSE-PRODUCER PROJECT INFORMATION SHEET
Please complete the following, if known, for each project employing employees covered by the IATSE Basic Agreement (“BA”)
and/or the Area Standards Agreement (“ASA”) and working in the United States.
*Please send completed form to notices@iatse.net*
PROJECT TITLE: DATE: .
SIGNATORY PRODUCER / EMPLOYER: ________________________________________________________________
PRODUCTION COMPANY: _____________________________________________________
☐ ☐
FEATURE DIRECT-TO-VIDEO
☐
TELEVISION:
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
INTENDED FOR EXHIBITION ON: Network Basic Cable Pay TV Other: .
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
TYPE: Game Show/Non Dramatic Pilot Episodic Series Long Form/ Mini Series Other:
☐ ☐ ☐
LENGTH: ½ Hour 1 Hour Other: .
☐
NEW MEDIA: Platform Name: Domestic subscribers: ☐ 20 million or more ☐ Fewer than 20 million
Total # of Episodes in Initial Series Order (if applicable): .
☐ ☐
LENGTH: Under 20 minutes 20 minutes or more
TYPE:
☐
Pilot
☐
Episodic Series
☐
Long Form
☐
Mini Series
☐
Other:
☐
Covered New Media Production (other than a Low Budget, Mid-Budget or High Budget SVOD Program):
☐ ☐
BUDGET: $25,000 or less per minute OR more than $25,000 per minute
☐
Low Budget SVOD Program [☐ 20-35 Minutes, < $900,000. ☐ 36-65 Minutes, < $1,750,000. ☐ 66 Minutes or more,
< $2,100,000.]
☐
Mid-Budget SVOD Program [☐ 20-35 Minutes, ≤ $900,000 < $1,300,000.
☐ 36-65 Minutes, ≤ $1,750,000 < $2,500,000. ☐ 66 Minutes or more, ≤ $2,100,000 < $3,000,000.]
☐
High Budget SVOD Program:
☐
Check if subject to a license agreement entered into on or after August 1, 2022, or in the absence of a license
Agreement, commences principal photography on or after August 1, 2022.
20-35 Minutes 36-65 Minutes 66-84 Minutes 85-95 Minutes 96 Minutes or More
☐ ≥ $1,300,000 < ☐ ≥ $2,500,000 < ☐ ≥ $3,000,000 ☐ ≥ $3,000,000 < ☐ ≥ $3,000,000 <
$2,100,000 $3,800,000 < $4,000,000 $4,000,000 $4,500,000*
☐ ≥ $2,100,000 < ☐ ≥ $3,800,000 < ☐ ≥ $4,000,000 ☐ ≥ $4,000,000 < ☐ ≥ $4,500,000* <
$4,000,000** $8,000,000*** $20,000,000**** $20,000,000****
☐ ≥ $4,000,000** ☐ ≥ $8,000,000*** ☐ ≥ $20,000,000**** ☐ ≥ $20,000,000****
< $32,781,810*****, †
☐ ≥ $32,781,810*****, †
*plus $2,250,000 for each additional minute or portion thereof
** increases to $4,120,000 effective July 30, 2023
*** increases to $8,240,000 effective July 30, 2023
**** increases to $20,600,000 effective July 30, 2023
***** increases to $33,765,264 effective July 31, 2022 and to $34,778,222 effective July 30, 2023
† $49,172,715 for animated High Budget SVOD Programs (increases to $50,647,896 effective July 31, 2022 and to
$52,167,333 effective July 30, 2023)
☐
Check only if project is a High Budget SVOD Mini-Series - 66 Minutes or More Per Part:
☐ ≥ $3,000,000 < $4,000,000
☐ ≥ $4,000,000 < $6,000,000 ($6,180,000 effective July 30, 2023)
☐ ≥ $6,000,000 ($6,180,000 effective July 30, 2023) < $9,500,000 ($9,785,000 effective July 30, 2023)
☐ ≥ $9,500,000 ($9,785,000 effective July 30, 2023)
PRODUCTION LOCATION(S): .
POST-PRODUCTION LOCATION(S): .
PRINCIPAL PHOTOGRAPHY START DATE: .
LABOR RELATIONS CONTACT: .
Tel: Email: .
UNIT PRODUCTION MANAGER / LINE PRODUCER: .
Tel: Email: .
PRODUCTION OFFICE INFO:
Address: Address 2: .
City: State / Province: Postal Code: Country:
Tel: Email: .
PAYROLL SERVICE: .
EXHIBIT "B"
- 124 -

--- PAGE 198 of 277 ---

ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS
15301 Ventura Boulevard, Building E, Sherman Oaks, CA 91403
Tel: 818.995.3600 • Fax: 818.285.4450 • www.amptp.org
Carol A. Lombardini Direct: 818.935.5930
President
As of August 1, 2015
Renewed as of August 1, 2018
Renewed as of August 1, 2021
Matthew D. Loeb
International President
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and
Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts
of the United States, its Territories and Canada
207 West 25th Street, 4th Floor
New York, New York 10001
Re: Special Conditions for One-Half Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour
Episodic Television Series (Other than Pilots or Series Made for Basic Cable)
Dear Matt:
This will memorialize the agreement reached in the 2015 negotiations, and renewed in the 2018
and 2021 negotiations, to apply the special conditions set forth herein to pre-production and
production of the following dramatic television motion pictures (other than a pilot or series made
for basic cable), which are committed to be produced in Los Angeles:
(1) One-half hour and one-hour pilots; and
(2) One-hour episodic television series, the production of which commences
on or after August 1, 1993.
The special conditions applicable to such programs are:
a. Wages – For pilots and the first two (2) production seasons of any series, the
wage rates set forth in the Local Agreements for the period immediately
preceding the period in question shall apply (e.g., during the period August 1,
2021 to July 30, 2022, the wage rates for the period August 2, 2020 to July 31,
2021 shall apply); thereafter, the wage rates in the Local Agreements shall apply.
b. Vacation - No vacation pay shall be payable for a pilot and the first year of any
series; in the second year of the series, vacation will be payable at one-half of the
applicable percentage in the Local Agreements; thereafter, the vacation provisions
in the Local Agreements shall apply.
- 125 -

--- PAGE 200 of 277 ---

ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS
15301 Ventura Boulevard, Building E, Sherman Oaks, CA 91403
Tel: 818.995.3600 • Fax: 818.285.4450 • www.amptp.org
Carol A. Lombardini Direct: 818.935.5930
President
As of August 1, 2021
Matthew D. Loeb
International President
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and
Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts
of the United States, its Territories and Canada
207 West 25th Street, 4th Floor
New York, New York 10001
Re: Special Conditions for Long-Form Television Motion Pictures (Including
Movies-of-the-Week, Mini-Series and Two (2) Hour Pilots for Which No
Commitment for a Series Exists at the Time of the Pilot Order)
Dear Matt:
This will confirm the agreement reached by the ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND
TELEVISION PRODUCERS, on behalf of the Producers listed in the 2021 Producer–I.A.T.S.E.
Basic Agreement (hereinafter referred to individually as "the Producer") and INTERNATIONAL
ALLIANCE OF THEATRICAL STAGE EMPLOYEES AND MOVING PICTURE
TECHNICIANS, ARTISTS AND ALLIED CRAFTS OF THE UNITED STATES, ITS
TERRITORIES AND CANADA, AFL-CIO ("IATSE").
WHEREAS the Producer is a signatory party to the Producer-I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement
of 2021 and the West Coast Studio Local Agreements; and
WHEREAS special conditions exist regarding productions of made-for-television long-
form programs, and of long-form motion pictures made for the videocassette/DVD market which
are budgeted at $9,000,000 or less, as further described below, concerning whether such
programs or motion pictures will be produced by the Producer; and
WHEREAS special conditions exist in order to preserve and maintain employment for
IATSE members;
THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows:
1. This sideletter and its special conditions shall apply to those made-for-television
long-form projects (movies-of-the-week, mini-series and two (2) hour pilots,
- 127 -

--- PAGE 201 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Long-Form Television Sideletter
As of August 1, 2021
Page 2
provided that no commitment for a series is attached to the pilot order), as well as
to long-form motion pictures made for the videocassette/DVD market which are
budgeted at $9,000,000 or less, which are produced by the Producer in Los
Angeles during the term of the 2021 IATSE Basic Agreement. Additionally, for
made-for-home video productions budgeted at no more than $12,000,000,
Producer may elect to use the terms of the Low Budget Theatrical Agreement as
provided in the Sideletter re Made-For-Home Video Productions.
2. All of the terms and conditions of the IATSE Basic Agreement of 2021 and the
West Coast Studio Local Agreements shall apply, except as provided in the
special conditions in this sideletter.
3. These special conditions shall not apply to any post-production work on the
productions covered hereunder, and all post-production and lab work shall be
performed in accordance with the IATSE Basic Agreement of 2021 and the West
Coast Studio Local Agreements.
4. The roster provisions of the IATSE Basic Agreement and the West Coast Local
Agreements are fully applicable; however, prospective employees are free to
accept or refuse a call to work on any production covered hereunder and any
refusal to accept a call will not count as a refusal under the roster provisions of
Paragraph 68 of the applicable Local Agreements.
5. The special conditions applicable to the productions covered hereunder are:
(i) (A) Notwithstanding any wage rate changes made in the future in the
Basic Agreement and the West Coast Local Agreements, wages are
as listed on the attached "Made for Television Long-Form
Agreement Rate Schedules."
(B) It is the good faith intention of Producer that an employee (other
than an employee engaged as Local #44 "Construction Labor" or
Local #729 "Set Painter") who works in a pay classification for
which a weekly wage rate has not been specified in the applicable
Local Agreement (e.g., Production Painter in Local #729, Grip in
 If there is a firm commitment for a series at the time the two (2) hour pilot is ordered, the
Sideletter entitled "Special Conditions for One-Half Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour
Episodic Television Series (other than Pilots or Series Made for Basic Cable)" shall apply.
- 128 -

--- PAGE 202 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Long-Form Television Sideletter
As of August 1, 2021
Page 3
Local #80, and Lamp Operator and Lighting Technician in Local
#728) and who is employed and paid at the weekly wage rate is
being engaged to perform the required work within the
classification for all the time that particular work is needed on the
project (e.g., Producer expects at the time of hiring to utilize a grip
for all three (3) weeks on which grip work is needed during a four
(4) week shoot). Otherwise, the applicable hourly or daily rate
shall be paid for these classifications. This shall not be construed
to be a run-of-the-show guarantee.
However, an employee in the "Construction Labor" and "Set
Painter" craft and classifications on pre-production, for which the
Local Agreement does not provide for a weekly salary, shall be
hired only as a daily employee.
Any allegation of improper application of the above shall be
promptly reviewed by representatives of the affected Local(s), the
IATSE International Office and the Labor Relations Department of
Producer before filing any grievances on the matter.
(ii) Staffing will be fully interchangeable with the following crew:
- Art Director (1) - Sound (¶106 of the Local #695
- Camera (4) Agreement is applicable)
- Set Construction as needed - Greensperson
- Grip Operations (4) - Electrical Operations (4)
- Craft Services (1) - Special Effects as needed
- Production Painter as needed - Set Dressing (3)
- First Aid as needed - Props (2)
- Make-up and Hair Stylist - Wardrobe (2)
(1 each) - Script Supervisor (1)
- Set Designer as needed
(iii) Overtime will be paid at the rate of time and one-half after eight (8) hours
worked, except that daily overtime for Script Supervisors shall be paid as
provided in the Local #871 Agreement (i.e., time and one-half after six (6)
hours); double time, when applicable, to be paid after fourteen (14)
elapsed hours. Overtime pay for weekly employees shall be based on one-
fortieth (1/40) of the weekly rate.
- 129 -

--- PAGE 203 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Long-Form Television Sideletter
As of August 1, 2021
Page 4
(iv) Meal periods - The time for breaking for the meal period may be extended
by up to one-half hour beyond the time specified in the Local Agreements
without penalty at the request of the Director. Notice for such a delayed
break must be given no later than one (1) hour before the meal period and
the extension may not be scheduled.
(v) Producer will not be required to pay the percentage of salaries for the
specified contractual holidays; however, any employee working on such
holiday will be paid double time. Weekly employees will be paid for any
holiday not worked during their period of employment.
(vi) Producer will not be required to pay the percentage of salaries as vacation
pay.
(vii) Producer will not be required to pay any transportation allowance, such as
specified in Paragraphs 21(c) and 22(b)(2) of the West Coast Studio Local
Agreements.
(viii) An employee hired as a weekly employee shall be paid a full week's pay.
Producer will not prorate the weekly rate for the purpose of paying the
employee on a daily rate or fractional weekly basis, unless the employee
elects not to perform the full week's work (e.g., the employee, hired for a
week, works three days and quits).
6. Prior to actual employment, Producer shall inform and provide written
information to each employee to be hired of the special conditions applicable to
the production.
7. Producer will provide to the appropriate West Coast Studio Locals the name of
the project and, upon request, the names and classifications of the employees who
will be employed under the special conditions of this sideletter.
8. The following additional special terms and conditions shall apply only to two (2)
hour pilots for which there is no series commitment at the time the pilot is ordered
and which are produced under the terms of this sideletter.
- 130 -

--- PAGE 204 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Long-Form Television Sideletter
As of August 1, 2021
Page 5
(i) Producer agrees to produce all future episodes resulting from the two (2)
hour production under the episodic television provisions of the IATSE
Basic Agreement in Los Angeles County or immediate areas, provided
that when the series is required to be produced outside Los Angeles
County or immediate areas due to creative reasons only, employment of a
majority of the crew from Los Angeles County (or if the episodes are
made in one of the "IATSE production cities") will satisfy this condition.
(ii) When the series is based in Los Angeles County, the Producer may do
location work outside of Los Angeles County on isolated episodes and
employ portions of the crew from Los Angeles County without the
number constituting a majority of the crew from Los Angeles County.
(iii) If principal photography of the first episode commences within seventy
(70) days of completion of principal photography of the two (2) hour long-
form television production, the Producer shall retroactively pay to the
IATSE-represented employees who worked on the two-hour television
production the wages set forth in the episodic television provisions of the
Basic Agreement.
(iv) The AMPTP and the IATSE shall appoint a joint committee to review and
monitor any issues relating to the above.
9. The following additional special terms and conditions shall apply only to long-
form motion pictures made for the videocassette/DVD market which are budgeted
at $9,000,000 or less and which the Producer has elected to cover under the terms
of this sideletter, rather than under the terms of the Low Budget Theatrical
Agreement:
(i) The IATSE shall have the right to audit any such production to ensure that
its budget falls within the aforementioned limitation. If the budget cap is
exceeded, the wages, terms and conditions of the Basic Agreement shall
apply.
(ii) "Behind-the-scenes" shots, when done by the signatory company for such
productions, shall also be covered under the terms of this sideletter.
- 131 -

--- PAGE 206 of 277 ---

MADE FOR TELEVISION LONG-FORM AGREEMENT RATE SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1, 2021 THROUGH JULY 30, 2022
Long-Form Rates 8/1/21 - 7/30/22 Weekly* Hourly Daily* Hourly
1801 Art Director - on call $3,224.06
1802 Director of Photography As negotiated under As negotiated under
Local Agreement Local Agreement
1803 Camera Operator 2,064.00 $51.60 $477.28 $59.66
1804 First Assistant Camera 1,887.60 47.19 436.40 54.55
1805 Second Assistant Camera 1,711.20 42.78 395.60 49.45
1806 Still Photographer 1,826.80 45.67 422.56 52.82
1847 Film Loader 1,485.60 37.14 343.12 42.89
1807 Construction Coordinator - on call 2,764.37
1808 Construction Labor 315.84 39.48
1809 Construction Foreman 1,476.80 36.92 341.04 42.63
1810 Key Grip 1,658.80 41.47 383.28 47.91
1811 Best Boy - Grip 1,507.60 37.69 320.80 40.10
1812 Company Grip 1,474.40 36.86 315.84 39.48
1813 Dolly Grip 1,507.60 37.69 320.80 40.10
1814 Crafts Service - on call 1,947.12
1815 Crafts Service 1,272.40 31.81 293.44 36.68
1816 Production Painter 1,658.80 41.47 383.28 47.91
1817 Set Painter 315.84 39.48
1849 Sign Writer 432.24 54.03
1818 Chief Lighting Technician 1,658.80 41.47 383.28 47.91
1819 Assistant Chief Lighting Technician 1,507.60 37.69 320.80 40.10
1821 Electrical Lighting Technician 1,474.40 36.86 315.84 39.48
1822 Chief Rigging Technician 1,507.60 37.69 320.80 40.10
1823 Special Effects 1,658.80 41.47 383.28 47.91
1824 Assistant Special Effects 315.84 39.48
1825 Set Decorator - on call 2,764.37
1826 Lead Person 1,474.40 36.86 315.84 39.48
1827 Swing Gang 294.88 36.86
1828 Prop Master 1,658.80 41.47 383.28 47.91
1829 Assistant Prop Master 1,390.00 34.75 320.80 40.10
1830 Costume Designer - on call 2,560.19
1831 Assistant Costume Designer - on call 2,100.35
1832 Key Costumer 1,377.60 34.44 317.92 39.74
1833 Costumer 1,260.00 31.50 290.72 36.34
1865 Costume Manufacturer 1,260.00 31.50 290.72 36.34
1834 Make-Up Department Head 1,746.40 43.66 403.84 50.48
1835 Assistant Make-Up Department Head 1,535.60 38.39 354.56 44.32
1836 Hair Stylist Department Head 1,535.60 38.39 354.56 44.32
1837 Hair Stylist 1,370.00 34.25 315.84 39.48
- 133 -

--- PAGE 207 of 277 ---

Long-Form Rates 8/1/21 - 7/30/22 Weekly* Hourly Daily* Hourly
1838 Sound Mixer $2,124.40 $53.11 $491.68 $61.46
1839 Boom Operator 1,887.60 47.19 436.40 54.55
1840 Welfare Worker/Teacher 1,696.40 42.41 392.24 49.03
1841 First Aid 1,370.00 34.25 315.84 39.48
1842 Other Technical Person 1,711.20 42.78 395.60 49.45
1843 Other Stagecraft Person 1,370.00 34.25 315.84 39.48
1844 Script Supervisor# 1,404.00 35.10 364.59 40.51
1850 Teleprompter Operator 1,496.80 37.42 318.80 39.85
1845 Set Designer 1,763.60 44.09 407.44 50.93
1846 Scenic Artist 1,834.80 45.87 424.08 53.01
1899 All Other Classifications Subject to negotiation Subject to negotiation
In the event IA classifications are utilized that may not be reflected in the above Rate Schedule,
the parties will meet to determine the appropriate rate.
*Weekly rates are for 40 hours of work (except for "on call"). Daily rates are for 8 hours of
work.
# Script Supervisor Preparation Pay:
60 Minute Program - $1,070.55
90 Minute Program - $2,141.10
120 Minute Program - $3,425.76
Script Supervisors hired on a daily basis shall receive time-and-one-half after six (6) hours.
- 134 -

--- PAGE 208 of 277 ---

MADE FOR TELEVISION LONG-FORM AGREEMENT RATE SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 31, 2022 THROUGH JULY 29, 2023
Long-Form Rates 7/31/22 - 7/29/23 Weekly* Hourly Daily* Hourly
1801 Art Director - on call $3,320.78
1802 Director of Photography As negotiated under As negotiated under
Local Agreement Local Agreement
1803 Camera Operator 2,126.00 $53.15 $491.60 $61.45
1804 First Assistant Camera 1,944.40 48.61 449.52 56.19
1805 Second Assistant Camera 1,762.40 44.06 407.44 50.93
1806 Still Photographer 1,881.60 47.04 435.20 54.40
1847 Film Loader 1,530.00 38.25 353.44 44.18
1807 Construction Coordinator - on call 2,847.30
1808 Construction Labor 325.28 40.66
1809 Construction Foreman 1,521.20 38.03 351.28 43.91
1810 Key Grip 1,708.40 42.71 394.80 49.35
1811 Best Boy - Grip 1,552.80 38.82 330.40 41.30
1812 Company Grip 1,518.80 37.97 325.28 40.66
1813 Dolly Grip 1,552.80 38.82 330.40 41.30
1814 Crafts Service - on call 2,005.53
1815 Crafts Service 1,310.40 32.76 302.24 37.78
1816 Production Painter 1,708.40 42.71 394.80 49.35
1817 Set Painter 325.28 40.66
1849 Sign Writer 445.20 55.65
1818 Chief Lighting Technician 1,708.40 42.71 394.80 49.35
1819 Assistant Chief Lighting Technician 1,552.80 38.82 330.40 41.30
1821 Electrical Lighting Technician 1,518.80 37.97 325.28 40.66
1822 Chief Rigging Technician 1,552.80 38.82 330.40 41.30
1823 Special Effects 1,708.40 42.71 394.80 49.35
1824 Assistant Special Effects 325.28 40.66
1825 Set Decorator - on call 2,847.30
1826 Lead Person 1,518.80 37.97 325.28 40.66
1827 Swing Gang 303.76 37.97
1828 Prop Master 1,708.40 42.71 394.80 49.35
1829 Assistant Prop Master 1,431.60 35.79 330.40 41.30
1830 Costume Designer - on call 2,637.00
1831 Assistant Costume Designer - on call 2,163.36
1832 Key Costumer 1,418.80 35.47 327.44 40.93
1833 Costumer 1,298.00 32.45 299.44 37.43
1865 Costume Manufacturer 1,298.00 32.45 299.44 37.43
1834 Make-Up Department Head 1,798.80 44.97 415.92 51.99
1835 Assistant Make-Up Department Head 1,581.60 39.54 365.20 45.65
1836 Hair Stylist Department Head 1,581.60 39.54 365.20 45.65
1837 Hair Stylist 1,411.20 35.28 325.28 40.66
- 135 -

--- PAGE 209 of 277 ---

Long-Form Rates 7/31/22 - 7/29/23 Weekly* Hourly Daily* Hourly
1838 Sound Mixer $2,188.00 $54.70 $506.40 $63.30
1839 Boom Operator 1,944.40 48.61 449.52 56.19
1840 Welfare Worker/Teacher 1,747.20 43.68 404.00 50.50
1841 First Aid 1,411.20 35.28 325.28 40.66
1842 Other Technical Person 1,762.40 44.06 407.44 50.93
1843 Other Stagecraft Person 1,411.20 35.28 325.28 40.66
1844 Script Supervisor# 1,446.00 36.15 375.57 41.73
1850 Teleprompter Operator 1,541.60 38.54 328.40 41.05
1845 Set Designer 1,816.40 45.41 419.68 52.46
1846 Scenic Artist 1,890.00 47.25 436.80 54.60
1899 All Other Classifications Subject to negotiation Subject to negotiation
In the event IA classifications are utilized that may not be reflected in the above Rate Schedule,
the parties will meet to determine the appropriate rate.
*Weekly rates are for 40 hours of work (except for "on call"). Daily rates are for 8 hours
of work.
# Script Supervisor Preparation Pay:
60 Minute Program - $1,102.58
90 Minute Program - $2,205.15
120 Minute Program - $3,528.24
Script Supervisors hired on a daily basis shall receive time-and-one-half after six (6) hours.
- 136 -

--- PAGE 210 of 277 ---

MADE FOR TELEVISION LONG-FORM AGREEMENT RATE SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE JULY 30, 2023 THROUGH JULY 31, 2024
Long-Form Rates 7/30/23 - 7/31/24 Weekly* Hourly Daily* Hourly
1801 Art Director - on call $3,420.40
1802 Director of Photography As negotiated under As negotiated under
Local Agreement Local Agreement
1803 Camera Operator 2,189.60 $54.74 $506.32 $63.29
1804 First Assistant Camera 2,002.80 50.07 463.04 57.88
1805 Second Assistant Camera 1,815.20 45.38 419.68 52.46
1806 Still Photographer 1,938.00 48.45 448.24 56.03
1847 Film Loader 1,576.00 39.40 364.08 45.51
1807 Construction Coordinator - on call 2,932.72
1808 Construction Labor 335.04 41.88
1809 Construction Foreman 1,566.80 39.17 361.84 45.23
1810 Key Grip 1,759.60 43.99 406.64 50.83
1811 Best Boy - Grip 1,599.20 39.98 340.32 42.54
1812 Company Grip 1,564.40 39.11 335.04 41.88
1813 Dolly Grip 1,599.20 39.98 340.32 42.54
1814 Crafts Service - on call 2,065.70
1815 Crafts Service 1,349.60 33.74 311.28 38.91
1816 Production Painter 1,759.60 43.99 406.64 50.83
1817 Set Painter 335.04 41.88
1849 Sign Writer 458.56 57.32
1818 Chief Lighting Technician 1,759.60 43.99 406.64 50.83
1819 Assistant Chief Lighting Technician 1,599.20 39.98 340.32 42.54
1821 Electrical Lighting Technician 1,564.40 39.11 335.04 41.88
1822 Chief Rigging Technician 1,599.20 39.98 340.32 42.54
1823 Special Effects 1,759.60 43.99 406.64 50.83
1824 Assistant Special Effects 335.04 41.88
1825 Set Decorator - on call 2,932.72
1826 Lead Person 1,564.40 39.11 335.04 41.88
1827 Swing Gang 312.88 39.11
1828 Prop Master 1,759.60 43.99 406.64 50.83
1829 Assistant Prop Master 1,474.40 36.86 340.32 42.54
1830 Costume Designer - on call 2,716.11
1831 Assistant Costume Designer - on call 2,228.26
1832 Key Costumer 1,461.20 36.53 337.28 42.16
1833 Costumer 1,336.80 33.42 308.40 38.55
1865 Costume Manufacturer 1,336.80 33.42 308.40 38.55
1834 Make-Up Department Head 1,852.80 46.32 428.40 53.55
1835 Assistant Make-Up Department Head 1,629.20 40.73 376.16 47.02
1836 Hair Stylist Department Head 1,629.20 40.73 376.16 47.02
1837 Hair Stylist 1,453.60 36.34 335.04 41.88
- 137 -

--- PAGE 211 of 277 ---

Long-Form Rates 7/30/23 - 7/31/24 Weekly* Hourly Daily* Hourly
1838 Sound Mixer $2,253.60 $56.34 $521.60 $65.20
1839 Boom Operator 2,002.80 50.07 463.04 57.88
1840 Welfare Worker/Teacher 1,799.60 44.99 416.16 52.02
1841 First Aid 1,453.60 36.34 335.04 41.88
1842 Other Technical Person 1,815.20 45.38 419.68 52.46
1843 Other Stagecraft Person 1,453.60 36.34 335.04 41.88
1844 Script Supervisor# 1,489.20 37.23 386.82 42.98
1850 Teleprompter Operator 1,588.00 39.70 338.24 42.28
1845 Set Designer 1,870.80 46.77 432.24 54.03
1846 Scenic Artist 1,946.80 48.67 449.92 56.24
1899 All Other Classifications Subject to negotiation Subject to negotiation
In the event IA classifications are utilized that may not be reflected in the above Rate Schedule,
the parties will meet to determine the appropriate rate.
*Weekly rates are for 40 hours of work (except for "on call"). Daily rates are for 8 hours of
work.
# Script Supervisor Preparation Pay:
60 Minute Program - $1,135.52
90 Minute Program - $2,271.03
120 Minute Program - $3,633.65
Script Supervisors hired on a daily basis shall receive time-and-one-half after six (6) hours.
- 138 -

--- PAGE 214 of 277 ---

ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION PRODUCERS
15301 Ventura Boulevard, Building E, Sherman Oaks, CA 91403
Tel: 818.995.3600 • Fax: 818.285.4450 • www.amptp.org
Carol A. Lombardini Direct: 818.935.5930
President
As of August 1, 2000
Revised as of August 1, 2003
Revised as of August 1, 2006
Revised as of August 1, 2012
Matthew D. Loeb
International President
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees
and Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied
Crafts of the United States, its Territories and Canada
207 West 25th Street, 4th Floor
New York, New York 10001
Dear Matt:
It is anticipated by the parties:
(a) that the increased benefits for Active Employees under the defined benefit plan, as set
forth in Article XIII(f)(1) of the 2000 Producer–I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement, will be
funded through future Supplemental Markets contributions;
(b) that the increased benefits for Active Employees under the defined benefit plan, as set
forth in Article XIII(f)(1) of the 2003 Producer–I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement shall be
funded first through the increased contributions to the defined benefit plan as set forth in
Article XIII(b) of the 2003 Producer–I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement (i.e., $.25 per hour
effective August 3, 2003; $.15 per hour effective August 1, 2004 and $.10 per hour
effective July 31, 2005); then, next, through Supplemental Markets contributions;
(c) that the increased benefits for Active Employees under the defined benefit plan as set
forth in Article XIII(f)(1) of the 2006 Producer–I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement shall be
funded first through the increased contribution to the defined benefit plan as set forth in
Article XIII(b) of the 2006 Producer–I.A.T.S.E. Basic Agreement (i.e., $.25 per hour
effective July 30, 2006); then, next through Supplemental Markets contributions; increase
in each year of the Agreement); then, next through Supplemental Markets contributions.
- 141 -

--- PAGE 216 of 277 ---

ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS
15301 Ventura Boulevard, Building E, Sherman Oaks, CA 91403
Tel: 818.995.3600 • Fax: 818.285.4450 • www.amptp.org
Carol A. Lombardini Direct: 818.935.5930
President
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Matthew D. Loeb
International President
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and
Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts
of the United States, its Territories and Canada
207 West 25th Street, 4th Floor
New York, New York 10001
Re: Productions Made for New Media
Dear Matt:
This Sideletter to the Producer – IATSE Basic Agreement of 20211 confirms the understanding
of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (hereinafter “the IATSE”), on behalf
of itself and its West Coast Studio Local Unions, on the one hand, and the Alliance of Motion
Picture and Television Producers, on behalf of the Producers it represented in the negotiations
for a successor agreement to the 2018 Producer – IATSE Basic Agreement (hereinafter
collectively “the parties”), concerning the terms and conditions applicable to the production of
entertainment motion pictures of the type that have traditionally been covered under the Producer
– IATSE Basic Agreement (hereinafter “the Basic Agreement”)2 that are made for the Internet,
mobile devices, or any other new media platform in existence as of August 1, 2009 (hereinafter
collectively referred to as “New Media”).3 With respect to such productions intended for initial
use in new media, the parties agree as follows:
1 For convenience only, and without intending to change the meaning or effect of or alter the
interpretation of this Sideletter to the Basic Agreement, the parties agree to reprint this Sideletter in the
West Coast Studio Local Agreements.
2 Such entertainment motion pictures do not include non-dramatic programs and non-prime time dramatic
programs which are instead covered under the Producer - I.A.T.S.E. Videotape Electronics Supplemental
Basic Agreement (hereinafter "the Videotape Agreement").
3 This Sideletter applies to the production of certain types of programs intended primarily for use in New
Media and does not cover work involved in the selection of content for, design or management of any
website or any other New Media platform on which productions made for New Media appear.
- 143 -

--- PAGE 217 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 2
A. Recognition
The Producer recognizes the IATSE as the exclusive bargaining representative of
employees employed in the job classifications covered by the West Coast Studio Local
Agreements (hereinafter “the West Coast Studio Local Agreements”) within the geographic
scope of the applicable West Coast Studio Local Agreement on entertainment motion pictures of
the type traditionally covered under the Basic Agreement, other than those covered under the
Videotape Agreement, which are intended for initial exhibition in New Media, but excluding
news, sports, documentaries and “Experimental New Media Productions,” as that term is defined
below.
B. Coverage
Coverage shall be at the Producer’s option with respect to “Experimental New Media
Productions.” Should the Producer elect to cover an Experimental New Media Production, the
terms and conditions applicable to employment on Original New Media Productions, as set forth
in Paragraph D.(1) below, shall apply.
An “Experimental New Media Production” is defined as any Original New Media
Production: (1) for which the actual cost of production does not exceed: (a) $15,000 per minute
of program material as exhibited, and (b) $300,000 per single production as exhibited, and (c)
$500,000 per series of programs produced for a single order; and (2) on which fewer than four
(4) employees as hereinafter described are working in job classifications covered by, and within
the geographic scope of, an industry-wide agreement between Employers and the IATSE, or a
Local thereof, which agreement covers television productions as well as productions made for
new media. With respect to any employee working within the geographic scope of the Basic or
Videotape Agreement, such employees shall include any person listed on the Industry
Experience Roster established by the Basic Agreement, or in the case of employees working in
classifications with no Roster, any person who has thirty (30) or more days of work experience
within the last three (3) years, either alone or in combination, under the West Coast Studio Local
Agreement covering that classification, the Videotape Agreement, or on New Media productions
covered under this Sideletter or the corresponding Sideletter in the Videotape Agreement.4 With
respect to any employee working in the respective classifications and geographic scope of any
other industry-wide Agreement described in the first sentence of this paragraph, such employees
shall include any person who has thirty (30) or more days of work experience within the last
three (3) years under any such Agreement and/or on New Media productions covered under any
such Agreement.55 Notwithstanding the preceding two sentences, in determining whether fewer
4, 5 The Producer shall be entitled to rely on the representation of the employee as to whether he
or she meets the "thirty (30) or more days of work experience within the last three (3) years "
requirement.
5
- 144 -

--- PAGE 218 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 3
than four (4) such employees are employed on the production, the following employees shall not
be counted: employees not specifically charged to the production or who are included in general
overhead; script coordinators and writers’ room assistants; projectionists and in-house publicists
(but not unit publicists); and employees engaged in post-production or distribution functions,
including, but not limited to, editing and looping, regardless of where or when those functions
are performed, but excluding the editor, provided that such editor is working in conjunction with
the shooting company.
The actual cost of the Experimental New Media Production shall consist of all direct
costs actually incurred in connection with the Production. The only costs excluded in
determining the actual cost of production shall be development costs, overhead charges,
financing costs (i.e., loan origination fees, gap fees, legal fees and interest), contingency of up to
ten percent (10%), essential elements insurance costs, the cost of the completion bond, marketing
expenses, contingent payments to talent or other parties which are based on the proceeds derived
from the exploitation of the Production and received after recoupment of the negative cost, and
delivery items required by sales agents, distributors or sub-distributors (i.e., delivery materials
beyond the answer print, NTSC Video Master if the Production is delivered on videotape, or the
digital equivalent if the Production is delivered in a digital format).
If the Producer began production of an “Experimental New Media Production” which the
Producer elected not to cover under the terms of this Sideletter, but subsequently employs four
(4) or more employees on the production in job classifications covered by, and within the
geographic scope of, an industry-wide collective bargaining agreement which meets the
description in the first sentence of the second paragraph of this Paragraph B., and such
employees meet the description in either the second or third sentence of the second paragraph of
this Paragraph B., and are not excluded pursuant to the fourth sentence of said paragraph, then
said production shall automatically be deemed covered hereunder, starting from the first
day on which at least four (4) or more such employees are so employed on the production and
continuing until the production is finished.
Producer shall use reasonable efforts to notify the IATSE that it intends to cover an
“Experimental New Media Production” by the start of principal photography.
C. Terms and Conditions of Employment on Derivative New Media Productions
(Other than a Derivative High Budget New Media Production Made Primarily for
Exhibition on a Subscription Video-On-Demand Consumer Pay Platform (“High Budget
SVOD Program”))
A “Derivative New Media Production” is a production made for New Media based on an
existing television motion picture covered by the Basic Agreement, other than a non-dramatic or
non-prime time dramatic program covered under the Videotape Agreement, that was produced
for “traditional” media – e.g., a free television, basic cable or pay television motion picture (“the
source production”) – and is otherwise included among the types of motion pictures traditionally
- 145 -

--- PAGE 219 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 4
covered by the Basic Agreement, but is not a non-dramatic program or non-prime time dramatic
program covered under the Videotape Agreement.
Employees may be employed by a Producer and assigned to a Derivative New Media
Production as part of their regular workday on the source production. The work for the
Derivative Production shall be considered part of the workday for the employees on the source
production and shall trigger overtime if work on the Derivative Production extends the workday
on the source production past the point at which overtime would normally be triggered on the
source production.
All other terms and conditions, including benefits, shall continue as if the employee were
continuing to work on the source production.
In all other situations, terms and conditions of employment for a Derivative New Media
Production (other than a derivative High Budget SVOD Program, the terms and conditions of
employment for which are provided in Paragraph G.) are freely negotiable between the employee
and the Producer, except for those provisions identified in Paragraph E. below which shall be
automatically applicable to employees.
D. Terms and Conditions of Employment on Original New Media Productions (Other
than an Original “High Budget SVOD Program”)
(1) Terms and conditions of employment on Original New Media Productions (other
than a “Low Budget SVOD Program” as defined in Paragraph D.(2)(b) below, a “Mid-Budget
SVOD Program” as defined in Paragraph D.(3) below and other than an Original “High Budget
SVOD Program” as defined in Paragraph G.(2) below) are freely negotiable between the
employee and the Producer, except for those provisions identified in Paragraph E. below which
shall be automatically applicable to employees.
(2) Low Budget SVOD Programs
(a) The terms and conditions set forth in this Paragraph D.(2) shall be
applicable prospectively only. They shall not apply to “Legacy” Low Budget SVOD program or
series, which are defined as:
(i) any program or series that would otherwise qualify as a “Low
Budget SVOD Program” within the meaning of this Sideletter, for which the principal
photography of the program, in the case of a one-time program, or the principal photography of
the first episode, in the case of a series, commenced prior to August 1, 2022; or
(ii) any program or series that would otherwise qualify as a “Low
Budget SVOD Program” within the meaning of this Sideletter, for which the principal
photography of the program or the first episode of the series commenced after August 1, 2022, if
- 146 -

--- PAGE 220 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 5
such program or series were produced pursuant to the terms of a bona fide license agreement
with fixed and definite terms entered into by the Producer prior to August 1, 2022.
However, if such license agreement is entered into subject to
conditions precedent, then all such conditions must be satisfied prior to August 1, 2022.
Any “Legacy” Low Budget SVOD program or series described in
subparagraphs (i) or (ii) above shall be subject to Paragraph D.(1) of this Sideletter. However,
with respect to any such program or series described in subparagraphs (i) or (ii) above, if the
licensee orders additional programs or episodes pursuant to the terms of the license agreement
after August 1, 2022 and the Producer has the right to negotiate with respect to the material terms
and conditions of the license for the additional programs or episodes, then such additional
programs or episodes shall be subject to this Paragraph D.(2).6
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Producer shall not reduce the terms
and conditions of employment previously provided to IATSE-represented employees on
programs or series covered by subparagraphs (i) or (ii) above.
(b) Low Budget SVOD Programs Defined
The terms and conditions set forth in Paragraph D.(2)(c) of this Sideletter
shall be applicable only to covered original, live action dramatic new media productions (other
than an “Experimental New Media Production”) made for initial exhibition on a subscription
video-on-demand consumer pay platform which meet the following criteria (hereinafter “Low
Budget SVOD Programs”):
Length of Program as “Low Budget” Threshold
Initially Exhibited*
20-35 Minutes Less than $900,000
36-65 Minutes Less than $1,750,000
66 Minutes or more Less than $2,100,000
6 In the event that Producer asserts that a program or series is a “Legacy” program under the provisions of
the second paragraph of Paragraph D.(2)(a) above, a limited number of representatives of the IATSE,
subject to the execution of a confidentiality agreement satisfactory in form to Producer, may inspect those
portions of the license agreement that are relevant to determine whether the Producer had the right to
renegotiate with respect to the material terms and conditions of the license for the additional programs or
episodes. All information received or reviewed by representatives of the IATSE shall be kept
confidential, and neither the IATSE nor its representatives shall disclose any such information, except as
necessary to enforce its rights under this Agreement.
- 147 -

--- PAGE 221 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 6
* Original, live action dramatic new media productions which are less than
20 minutes in length and made for initial exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand
consumer pay platform are not subject to this Paragraph D.(2) and, instead, are subject to
Paragraph D.(1) of this Sideletter, regardless of their budgets.
(c) Terms and Conditions
The terms and conditions applicable to a Low Budget SVOD Program
shall be as provided in the Sideletter re Special Conditions for Long-Form Television Motion
Pictures (Including Movies-of-the-Week, Mini-Series and Two (2) Hour Pilots for Which No
Commitment for a Series Exists at the Time of the Pilot Order) (hereinafter the “Long-Form
Sideletter”), regardless of where such Low Budget SVOD Program is produced, except that:
(i) Employees employed on a Low Budget SVOD Program, other than
post-production employees, shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in the “Made for Television
Long-Form Agreement Rate Schedules” for the period two periods prior to the period in question
(e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 2,
2020 to July 31, 2021 shall apply);
(ii) Paragraph 3 of the Long-Form Sideletter shall not apply. Post-
production employees employed on a Low-Budget SVOD Program shall be paid at the wage
rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the Sideletter re: Sideletter to the 2021 Producer-
IATSE Basic Agreement re Productions Made for New Media in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement for the period two periods prior to the period in question (e.g., during the period July
31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 2, 2020 to July 31, 2021 shall
apply);
(iii) In lieu of Paragraph 4 of the Long-Form Sideletter, Paragraph
E.(3) of this Sideletter shall apply;
(iv) In lieu of Paragraph 5.(ii) of the Long-Form Sideletter, Paragraph
E.(5) of this Sideletter shall apply; and
(v) Paragraph 5.(viii) of the Long-Form Sideletter shall not apply.
(3) Mid-Budget SVOD Programs
(a) The terms and conditions set forth in this Paragraph D.(3) shall not apply
to any program or series that continues in production on or after November 21, 2021 and which
qualified as a “Legacy”7 Mid-Budget SVOD Program or series, and continues to qualify as a
7 During the 2021 negotiations, the parties agreed as a matter of housekeeping to rename “grandfathered”
Mid-Budget SVOD Programs and series as “Legacy” Mid-Budget SVOD Programs and series.
- 148 -

--- PAGE 222 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 7
“Legacy” Mid-Budget SVOD Program or series, pursuant to Paragraph D.(2)(a)(i) or (ii) of the
Sideletter re Productions Made for New Media to the 2018 Basic Agreement.
In addition, the terms and conditions set forth in this Paragraph D.(3) shall not
apply to a Mid-Budget SVOD Program or episodes of a Mid-Budget SVOD series, the principal
photography of which commences on or after November 21, 2021 pursuant to a license
agreement entered into prior to November 21, 2021.8 Paragraph D.(2) of the Sideletter re
Productions Made for New Media to the 2018 Basic Agreement shall apply instead, except that
minimum wage and fringe rates shall be subject to the increases negotiated during the 2021
negotiations.
(b) Mid-Budget SVOD Programs Defined
The terms and conditions set forth in Paragraph D.(3)(c) of this Sideletter
shall be applicable only to original, live action dramatic new media productions made for initial
exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform which meet the following
criteria (hereinafter “Mid-Budget SVOD Programs”):
Length of Program “Mid-Budget” Threshold
as Initially Exhibited*
20-35 Minutes $900,000 or more but less than
$1,300,000
36-65 Minutes $1,750,000 or more but less than
$2,500,000
66 Minutes or more $2,100,000 or more but less than
$3,000,000
8 If the licensee orders additional Mid-Budget SVOD Programs or episodes of a Mid-Budget SVOD
series, the principal photography of which will commence on or after November 21, 2021, pursuant to a
license agreement entered into prior to November 21, 2021, and the Producer has the right to negotiate
with respect to the material terms and conditions of the license for the additional programs or episodes,
then the Mid-Budget SVOD Program or episodes of the Mid-Budget SVOD series shall be subject to the
terms of the Sideletter re Productions Made for New Media to the 2021 Basic Agreement. In the event
that Producer asserts that a Mid-Budget SVOD Program qualifies as a “Legacy” Mid-Budget SVOD
Program under the provisions of the second paragraph of Paragraph D.(3)(a) above, a limited number of
representatives of the IATSE, subject to the execution of a confidentiality agreement satisfactory in form
to Producer, may inspect those portions of the license agreement that are relevant to determine whether
the Producer had the right to renegotiate with respect to the material terms and conditions of the license
for the additional programs or episodes. All information received or reviewed by representatives of the
IATSE shall be kept confidential, and neither the IATSE nor its representatives shall disclose any such
information, except as necessary to enforce its rights under this Agreement.
- 149 -

--- PAGE 223 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 8
* Original, live action dramatic new media productions which are less than
20 minutes in length and made for initial exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand
consumer pay platform are not subject to this Paragraph D.(3), and, instead, are subject to
Paragraph D.(1) of this Sideletter, regardless of their budgets.
(c) Terms and Conditions
The terms and conditions applicable to a Mid-Budget SVOD Program
shall be as provided in the Long-Form Sideletter, regardless of where such Mid-Budget SVOD
Program is produced, except that:
(i) Employees employed on a Mid-Budget SVOD Program, other than
post-production employees, shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in the “Made for Television
Long-Form Agreement Rate Schedules” for the period prior to the period in question (e.g.,
during the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022, the wage rates for the period August 2, 2020
to July 31, 2021 shall apply). Effective July 31, 2022, such employees shall be paid at the wage
rates set forth in the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate Schedules” for the
applicable time period;
(ii) Paragraph 3 of the Long-Form Sideletter shall not apply. Post-
production employees employed on a Mid-Budget SVOD Program shall be paid at the wage
rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the Sideletter re: Sideletter to the 2021 Producer-
IATSE Basic Agreement re Productions Made for New Media in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement for the period prior to the period in question (e.g., during the period August 1, 2021
to July 30, 2022, the wage rates for the period August 2, 2020 to July 31, 2021 shall apply).
Effective July 31, 2022, post-production employees employed on a Mid-Budget SVOD program
shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the Sideletter re:
Sideletter to the 2021 Producer-IATSE Basic Agreement re Productions Made for New Media in
the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement for the applicable time period;
(iii) In lieu of Paragraph 4 of the Long-Form Sideletter, Paragraph
E.(3) of this Sideletter shall apply;
(iv) In lieu of Paragraph 5.(ii) of the Long-Form Sideletter, Paragraph
E.(5) of this Sideletter shall apply; and
(v) Paragraph 5.(viii) of the Long-Form Sideletter shall not apply.
- 150 -

--- PAGE 224 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 9
E. Other Provisions for New Media Productions (Other than a “High Budget SVOD
Program”)
(1) Union Security
The provisions of Article II, “Union Security,” of the Basic Agreement shall
apply to New Media Productions, except that the requirement to become a member in good
standing of the Union shall not apply until an individual has been employed for at least thirty
(30) workdays on New Media Productions covered under this Sideletter, or for a combined total
of thirty (30) workdays on New Media Productions covered under this Sideletter and on motion
pictures of the type traditionally covered under the Basic Agreement.
The Union acknowledges and agrees that the obligations set forth in subparagraph
(c) of Article II apply only to newly-hired employees who are not members of the IATSE or the
applicable Local Union hereunder.
(2) Pension, Health and Individual Account Plans
On covered New Media Productions budgeted at $25,000 or less per minute
(using the same cost elements as described in the third paragraph of Paragraph B. above),
Producer’s only obligation hereunder shall be to make contributions to the Active Health Fund,
as required by Article XII of the Basic Agreement, and to the Retired Employees Fund, as
required by Article XIV of the Basic Agreement, on behalf of each employee employed under
the terms of this Sideletter.
On New Media Productions budgeted at more than $25,000 per minute (using the
same cost elements as described in the third paragraph of Paragraph B. above), or when
employees are assigned by the Producer to a Derivative New Media Production as part of their
regular workday on the source production, Producer shall be obligated to make pension, health
and Individual Account Plan contributions in accordance with the provisions of Articles XII,
XIII, XIIIA. and XIV of the Basic Agreement.
(3) Preference of Employment/Industry Experience Roster
There shall be no preference of employment of any kind or nature in the
employment of employees on New Media Productions hereunder. The provisions of the Basic
Agreement relating to Preference of Employment shall not be applicable to New Media
Productions, except to the extent provided below. An employee need not be on the Industry
Experience Roster in order to be employed on a New Media Production.
Work under this Agreement on a covered New Media Production twenty (20)
minutes or more in length in a job classification covered by and within the geographic scope of a
West Coast Studio Local Agreement for which the same work, if performed in connection with a
- 151 -

--- PAGE 225 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 10
theatrical or television motion picture, would qualify for placement on the Local’s Industry
Experience Roster, shall be counted for purposes of placement on such Industry Experience
Roster, subject to the eligibility requirements set forth in the applicable Local Agreement. If an
individual has worked under this Agreement in more than one classification on a single covered
New Media Production, the Producer of such covered New Media Production shall identify the
employee’s primary skill for purposes of determining the classification to which such person’s
workdays shall be credited for purposes of placement on the Industry Experience Roster.
(4) Grievance and Arbitration
Any dispute with regard to wages, hours of employment or working conditions
concerning an employee employed by Producer under the terms of this Sideletter shall be
resolved in accordance with the grievance and arbitration procedure set forth in Article XXXII of
the Basic Agreement, except that references therein to “the Local Union” shall be replaced with
“the IATSE” and the provisions with respect to the Step Two Conciliation Committee shall be
deleted.
(5) Staffing
It is expressly understood and agreed that there shall be no staffing requirements
on productions made for New Media and that there will be full interchange of job functions
among employees, so that a single employee may be required to perform the functions of
multiple job classifications covered hereunder.
(6) No Strike, No Lockout
During the term of this Agreement, the Union agrees not to engage in any strike,
sympathy strike or work stoppage against the Producer. The Producer agrees not to engage in
any lockout of its employees employed hereunder during the term of this Agreement.
(7) Sick Leave
The provisions of Articles XLVI (“Paid Sick Leave”) and XLVII (“Waiver of
New York City Earned Safe and Sick Time Act and Similar Laws”) of the Basic Agreement shall
apply to New Media Productions covered under this Sideletter.
(8) No Other Terms Applicable
Except as expressly provided in this Sideletter, no other terms and conditions
shall be applicable to employees employed on New Media Productions.
- 152 -

--- PAGE 226 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 11
F. Reuse of New Media Programs (Other than a “High Budget SVOD Program”)
Only those covered New Media Productions (other than High Budget SVOD Programs)
on which two (2) or more “employees employed by the Producer under the Basic Agreement,” as
that term is used in Article XIX(a) and in Article XXVIII(a)(2) of the Basic Agreement,9 shall
generate residual payments and then only in accordance with the following:
(1) Reuse in New Media
(a) The Producer shall have the right to use an Original New Media
Production budgeted at $25,000 or less per minute (using the same cost elements as described in
the third paragraph of Paragraph B. above) on any new media platform without limitation as to
time, and without payment of residuals.
(b) The Producer shall have the right to use an Original New Media
Production budgeted at more than $25,000 per minute (using the same cost elements as described
in the third paragraph of Paragraph B. above) or a Derivative New Media Production without the
payment of residuals under the following circumstances:
(i) When such New Media Production is used on any free-to-the-
consumer, advertiser-supported platform; and
(ii) When such New Media Production is first released on a consumer
pay platform (i.e., download-to-rent, download-to-own or paid streaming), even if it is
subsequently released on a free-to-the-consumer advertiser-supported platform.
(c) If an Original New Media Production budgeted at more than $25,000 per
minute (using the same cost elements as described in the third paragraph of Paragraph B. above)
or a Derivative New Media Production is initially released on a free-to-the-consumer, advertiser-
supported platform and is subsequently released on consumer pay platforms (i.e., download-to-
own, download to rent or paid streaming), then Producer shall have a twenty-six (26) consecutive
week period of use on consumer pay platforms, commencing with the first day of use on
consumer pay platforms, without the payment of residuals. If the Producer uses the New Media
Production on consumer pay platforms beyond such twenty-six (26) consecutive week period,
then Producer shall pay to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and/or Health Plans 5.4% of
“Producer’s gross,” as that term is defined in Paragraph 3 of the “Sideletter re Exhibition of
Motion Pictures Transmitted via New Media,” attributable to use on consumer pay platforms
beyond the twenty-six (26) consecutive week period.
9 It is understood and agreed that any employee employed under the terms of the corresponding
"Productions Made for New Media" Sideletter in either the Local #52 Agreement or in the Local #161
Agreement shall not be considered an "employee employed by Producer under the Basic Agreement" for
purposes of Paragraph F. of this Sideletter.
- 153 -

--- PAGE 227 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 12
(d) If an Original New Media Production budgeted at more than $25,000 per
minute (using the same cost elements as described in the third paragraph of Paragraph B. above)
or a Derivative New Media Production is initially released simultaneously on free-to-the-
consumer, advertiser-supported platforms and to consumer pay platforms (i.e., download-to-own,
download-to-rent or paid streaming), then Producer shall have a twenty-six (26) consecutive
week period of use on consumer pay platforms, commencing with the first day of use on
consumer pay platforms, without the payment of residuals. If the Producer uses the New Media
Production on consumer pay platforms beyond such twenty-six (26) consecutive week period,
then Producer shall pay to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and/or Health Plans 5.4% of the
“Producer’s gross,” as that term is defined in Paragraph 3 of the “Sideletter re Exhibition of
Motion Pictures Transmitted via New Media,” realized from any subsequent license which
includes use on consumer pay platforms, which “gross” is attributable to use on consumer pay
platforms beyond the twenty-six (26) consecutive week period, measured from the first day of
use on consumer pay platforms under the first license.
(2) Reuse in Traditional Media
The applicable provisions of Article XXVIII with respect to exhibition on “pay
television,” as that term is defined in Article XXVIII(a)(3)(ii) of the Basic Agreement, shall
apply when a covered New Media Production is exhibited on pay television. The applicable
provisions of Article XXVIII with respect to exhibition on “cassettes,” as that term is defined in
Article XXVIII(a)(3)(i), shall apply when a covered New Media Production is exhibited on
videocassettes or DVDs.
(3) General
It is understood that the tests for triggering Post ‘60s and Supplemental Markets
payments set forth in Article XIX and XXVIII of the Basic Agreement, including the
understandings set forth in subparagraph (g) of those Articles, and the proration provisions in
those Articles, shall also apply to residual payments due under the terms of this Sideletter.
Residual payments due under this Sideletter shall be prorated in the same manner as are
Supplemental Market monies under Article XXVIII of the Basic Agreement.
G. High Budget Derivative and Original Dramatic New Media Productions Made for
Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform
(1) Prospective Application
The terms and conditions set forth in this Paragraph G. shall not apply to any
program or series that continues in production on or after August 1, 2018 and which qualified as
- 154 -

--- PAGE 228 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 13
a “Legacy”10 High Budget SVOD Program or series, and continues to qualify as a “Legacy”
High Budget SVOD Program or series, pursuant to Paragraph G.(1)(a) or (b) of the Sideletter re
Productions Made for New Media to the 2015 Basic Agreement.
In addition, the terms and conditions set forth in this Paragraph G. shall not apply
to a High Budget SVOD Program or episodes of a High Budget SVOD series, the principal
photography of which commences on or after August 1, 2018 pursuant to a license agreement
entered into prior to August 1, 2018.11 Paragraph G. of the Sideletter re Productions Made for
New Media to the 2015 Basic Agreement shall apply instead, except that minimum wage and
fringe rates shall be subject to the increases negotiated during the 2018 and 2021 negotiations.
(2) High Budget SVOD Programs Defined
The terms and conditions set forth in Paragraph G. of this Sideletter shall be
applicable only to original and derivative dramatic new media productions made for initial
exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform which meet the following
“high budget” criteria (hereinafter “High Budget SVOD Programs”):
Length of Program “High Budget” Threshold
as Initially Exhibited*
20-35 Minutes $1,300,000 and above
36-65 Minutes $2,500,000 and above
66 Minutes or more $3,000,000 and above
* Programs less than 20 minutes are not considered “high budget” for the purpose
of this Sideletter, regardless of their budgets.
10 During the 2021 negotiations, the parties agreed as a matter of housekeeping to rename “grandfathered”
High Budget SVOD Programs and series as “Legacy” High Budget SVOD Programs and series.
11 If the licensee orders additional High Budget SVOD Programs or episodes of a High Budget SVOD
series, the principal photography of which will commence on or after August 1, 2021, pursuant to a
license agreement entered into prior to August 1, 2018, and the Producer has the right to negotiate with
respect to the material terms and conditions of the license for the additional programs or episodes, then
the High Budget SVOD Program or episodes of the High Budget SVOD series shall be subject to the
terms of the Sideletter re Productions Made for New Media to the 2021 Basic Agreement. In the event
that Producer asserts that a High Budget SVOD Program is grandfathered under the provisions of the
second paragraph of Paragraph G.(1) above, a limited number of representatives of the IATSE, subject to
the execution of a confidentiality agreement satisfactory in form to Producer, may inspect those portions
of the license agreement that are relevant to determine whether the Producer had the right to renegotiate
with respect to the material terms and conditions of the license for the additional programs or episodes.
All information received or reviewed by representatives of the IATSE shall be kept confidential, and
neither the IATSE nor its representatives shall disclose any such information, except as necessary to
enforce its rights under this Agreement.
- 155 -

--- PAGE 229 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 14
(3) Tier 1 and Tier 2 Defined
For purposes of Paragraph G.(4) below, Tier 1 and Tier 2 shall be defined as
follows:
Program Budget Tier
Length
Tier 1: $2,100,000 or more
20-35
Tier 2: $1,300,000 or more but less than $2,100,000
Minutes
Tier 1: $3,800,000 or more
36-65
Tier 2: $2,500,000 or more but less than $3,800,000
Minutes
66-95 Tier 1: $4,000,000 or more
Minutes
Tier 2: $3,000,000 or more but less than $4,000,000
Tier 1: $4,500,000 (plus $2,250,000 for each additional
96 Minutes 35 minutes or portion thereof) or more
or more
Tier 2: $3,000,000 or more but less than $4,500,000 (plus
$2,250,000 for each additional 35 minutes or portion
thereof)
(4) Terms and Conditions
The terms and conditions applicable to a High Budget SVOD Program, as defined
in subparagraph (3) above, shall be as provided in the 2021 IATSE Basic Agreement and the
West Coast Studio Local Agreements for free television, subject to the modifications below (see
Appendix B to the Sideletter re: Sideletter to the 2021 Producer-IATSE Basic Agreement re
Productions Made for New Media (“Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter”) in each West
Coast Studio Local Agreement for wage rate tables reflecting the minimum wage rates described
below that are applicable to that Local):
(a) One-Time High Budget SVOD Programs (Other Than Pilots)
(i) For one-time High Budget SVOD Programs subject to a license
agreement entered into before August 1, 2022 (or in the absence of a license agreement, the
principal photography of which commences before August 1, 2022) that are intended for initial
exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform with 20 million or more
subscribers in the United States and Canada:
- 156 -

--- PAGE 230 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 15
(A) One-Time High Budget SVOD Programs Fewer Than 66
Minutes in Length – Tier 1 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand
Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The terms and conditions applicable to a pilot under the
“Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour
Episodic Television Series” shall apply regardless of where the Program is produced.
Post-production employees employed on the Program shall
be paid at the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the
Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately preceding the period in
question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period
August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply).
(See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media
Sideletter in each Local Agreement for wage rates.)
(B) One-Time High Budget SVOD Programs Fewer Than 66
Minutes in Length – Tier 2 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand
Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the Program is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees employed on the Program shall
be paid at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the
Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.
(C) One-Time High Budget SVOD Programs 66 Minutes or
More in Length – Tier 1 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand
Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
1) Except as provided in 2) below:
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of
where the Program is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees employed on the
Program shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement,
including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately preceding the
period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the
- 157 -

--- PAGE 231 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 16
period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New
Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement for wage rates.)
2) A live action one-time High Budget SVOD
Program (other than a pilot, episode of a series or part of a mini-series) that is:
subject to a license agreement entered into on or
after January 1, 2019 (or, in the absence of a license agreement, the principal photography of
which commences on or after January 1, 2019);
96 minutes or more in length; and
budgeted at over $32,781,810 [to be increased by
the general wage increases on the Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement
beginning July 31, 202212];13
shall be subject to the wage rates and working
conditions applicable to theatrical motion pictures as set forth in this Agreement and in the West
Coast Studio Local Agreements. It is understood that the only residual obligations applicable to
any such Program shall be as provided in Paragraph G.(5) of this Sideletter.
(D) One-Time High Budget SVOD Programs 66 Minutes or
More in Length – Tier 2 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand
Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the Program is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates.)
12 The $32,781,810 budget threshold increases to over $33,765,264 effective July 31, 2022 and to over
$34,778,222 effective July 30, 2023.
13 The budget shall be determined by the production costs, including the “above” and “below the line”
costs and “pre-production” and “post-production” costs. Production costs shall not include: (a) the costs
of the premium for a completion bond; (b) a contingency fund not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the
budget; (c) costs reimbursed by insurance; and (d) overages caused by a force majeure event or
governmental action. Employer shall provide the IATSE, upon request, with a report of the actual
expenditures of the production (“Final Expenditure Report”) and such other relevant materials as the
IATSE may require which show the actual cost of the production. All information received or reviewed
by representatives of the IATSE or retained professionals shall be confidential and neither the IATSE nor
its representatives or retained professionals shall disclose any such information except as necessary to
enforce their rights under the Agreement.
- 158 -

--- PAGE 232 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 17
Post-production employees employed on the Program shall
be paid at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the
Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.
(ii) For one-time High Budget SVOD Programs subject to a license
agreement entered into before August 1, 2022 (or in the absence of a license agreement, the
principal photography of which commences before August 1, 2022) that are intended for initial
exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform with fewer than 20 million
subscribers in the United States and Canada:
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where the
Program is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate Schedules” for
wage rates.)
Post-production employees employed on the Program shall be paid
at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700
(Majors) Agreement.
(iii) For one-time High Budget SVOD Programs subject to a license
agreement entered into on or after August 1, 2022 (or in the absence of a license agreement, the
principal photography of which commences on or after August 1, 2022) that are intended for
initial exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform with 20 million or
more subscribers in the United States and Canada:
(A) One-Time High Budget SVOD Program Fewer than 66
Minutes in Length – Tier 1 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand
Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The terms and conditions applicable to a pilot under the
“Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour
Episodic Television Series” shall apply regardless of where the Program is produced.
Post-production employees employed on the Program shall
be paid at the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the
Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately preceding the period in
question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period
August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply).
(See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media
Sideletter in each Local Agreement for wage rates.)
- 159 -

--- PAGE 233 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 18
(B) One-Time High Budget SVOD Program Fewer than 66
Minutes in Length – Tier 2 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand
Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the Program is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees employed on the Program shall
be paid at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the
Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.
(C) One-Time High Budget SVOD Program 66 to 84 Minutes
in Length – Tier 1 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand
Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the Program is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees employed on the Program shall
be paid at the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the
Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately preceding the period in
question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period
August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media
Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement for wage rates.)
(D) One-Time High Budget SVOD Program 66 to 84 Minutes
in Length – Tier 2 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand
Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the Program is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees employed on the Program shall
be paid at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the
Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.
- 160 -

--- PAGE 234 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 19
(E) One-Time High Budget SVOD Program 85 Minutes or
More in Length – Budgeted at Less Than $20,000,000 [to be increased by the general wage
increases on the Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30,
2023]14 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay
Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the Program is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates.)
1) Post-production employees employed on a Program
in Tier 1 shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement,
including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately preceding the
period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the
period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New
Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement for wage rates.)
2) Post-production employees employed on a Program
in Tier 2 shall be paid at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media
Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.
(F) One-Time High Budget SVOD Program 85 Minutes or
More in Length – Budgeted at $20,000,000 or More [to be increased by the general wage
increases on the Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30,
2023]15 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay
Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
1) Except as provided in 2) below:
Employees (other than post-production employees)
shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in the Local Agreements for the period two periods prior
to the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates
for the period August 2, 2020 to July 31, 2021 shall apply). (See Paragraph 2 of Appendix B to
the New Media Sideletter in each Local Agreement for wage rates.)
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of
where the Program is produced, except that wage rates shall be as provided in the preceding
paragraph and Paragraph 5(viii) of the Long-Form Sideletter shall be modified to allow a
Producer to pay the daily rate for each day worked in a partial workweek when the employee is
14 The $20,000,000 budget threshold increases to over $20,600,000 effective July 30, 2023.
15 The $20,000,000 budget threshold increases to over $20,600,000 effective July 30, 2023.
- 161 -

--- PAGE 235 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 20
employed in a classification that has a daily rate and proration of the weekly rate is otherwise not
allowed.
Post-production employees shall be paid at the
wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment
Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g.,
during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to
July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the
Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.)
2) A live action one-time High Budget SVOD
Program (other than a pilot, episode of a series or part of a mini-series) that is:
subject to a license agreement entered into on or
after January 1, 2019 (or, in the absence of a license agreement, the principal photography of
which commences on or after January 1, 2019);
96 minutes or more in length; and
budgeted at over $33,765,264 [to be increased by
the general wage increases on the Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement
beginning July 31, 202216]17;
shall be subject to the wage rates and working
conditions applicable to theatrical motion pictures as set forth in this Agreement and in the West
Coast Studio Local Agreements. It is understood that the only residual obligations applicable to
any such Program shall be as provided in Paragraph G.(5) of this Sideletter.
16 The $32,781,810 was increased to $33,765,264 effective July 31, 2022; the $33,765,264 budget
threshold increases to over $34,778,222 effective July 30, 2023.
17 The budget shall be determined by the production costs, including the “above” and “below the line”
costs and “pre-production” and “post-production” costs. Production costs shall not include: (a) the costs
of the premium for a completion bond; (b) a contingency fund not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the
budget; (c) costs reimbursed by insurance; and (d) overages caused by a force majeure event or
governmental action. Employer shall provide the IATSE, upon request, with a report of the actual
expenditures of the production (“Final Expenditure Report”) and such other relevant materials as the
IATSE may require which show the actual cost of the production. All information received or reviewed
by representatives of the IATSE or retained professionals shall be confidential and neither the IATSE nor
its representatives or retained professionals shall disclose any such information except as necessary to
enforce their rights under the Agreement.
- 162 -

--- PAGE 236 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 21
(iv) For one-time High Budget SVOD Programs subject to a license
agreement entered into on or after August 1, 2022 (or in the absence of a license agreement, the
principal photography of which commences on or after August 1, 2022) that are intended for
initial exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform with fewer than 20
million subscribers in the United States and Canada:
(A) One-Time High Budget SVOD Program Fewer than 85
Minutes in Length – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand
Consumer Pay Platform with Fewer than 20 Million Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the Program is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees employed on the Program shall
be paid at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the
Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.
(B) One-Time High Budget SVOD Program 85 Minutes or
More in Length – Budgeted at Less Than $20,000,000 [to be increased by the general wage
increases on the Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30,
2023]18 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay
Platform with Fewer than 20 Million Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the Program is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees employed on the Program shall
be paid at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the
Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.
(C) One-Time High Budget SVOD Program 85 Minutes or
More in Length – Budgeted at $20,000,000 or More [to be increased by the general wage
increases on the Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30,
2023]19 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay
Platform with Fewer than 20 Million Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The wage rates set forth in the Local Agreements for the
period two periods prior to the period in question shall apply (e.g., during the period July 31,
18 The $20,000,000 budget threshold increases to over $20,600,000 effective July 30, 2023.
19 The $20,000,000 budget threshold increases to over $20,600,000 effective July 30, 2023.
- 163 -

--- PAGE 237 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 22
2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 2, 2020 to July 31, 2021 shall apply).
(See Paragraph 2 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each Local Agreement for wage
rates.)
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the Program is produced, except that wage rates shall be as provided in the preceding paragraph
and Paragraph 5(viii) of the Long-Form Sideletter shall be modified to allow a Producer to pay
the daily rate for each day worked in a partial workweek when the employee is employed in a
classification that has a daily rate and proration of the weekly rate is otherwise not allowed.
(b) Pilots
(i) Tier 1 Pilots Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription
Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United
States and Canada
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half Hour and One-
Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply regardless of where the pilot
is produced (see Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each Local
Agreement for wage rates), except that the Long-Form Sideletter shall apply to a High Budget
SVOD pilot that is 96 minutes or more in length and has no commitment for a series at the time
of the pilot order (see the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate Schedules” for
wage rates).
Post-production employees employed on such pilots shall be paid
at the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment
Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g.,
during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to
July 30, 2022 shall apply) (see Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the
Local #700 (Majors) Agreement).
(ii) Tier 2 Pilots Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription
Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United
States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where the
Program is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate Schedules” for
wage rates.)
Post-production employees employed on such pilots shall be paid
at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700
(Majors) Agreement.
- 164 -

--- PAGE 238 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 23
(iii) Pilots Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-
Demand Consumer Pay Platform with Fewer than 20 Million Subscribers in the United States
and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where the
Program is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate Schedules” for
wage rates.)
Post-production employees employed on such pilots shall be paid
at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700
(Majors) Agreement.
(c) Series (Other Than Mini-Series)
(i) For High Budget SVOD series (other than a mini-series) subject to
a license agreement entered into before August 1, 2022 (or in the absence of a license agreement,
a series for which principal photography of the first episode commences before August 1, 2022):
(A) High Budget SVOD Series Fewer than 66 Minutes in
Length Per Episode – Tier 1 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-
Demand Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and
Canada
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half Hour
and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply regardless of where
the series is produced. (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each
Local Agreement for wage rates applicable to the first two seasons.)
Post-production employees employed on the first or second
season of such series shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately
preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage
rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix
B to the Local #3700 (Majors) Agreement.) Thereafter, the wage rates set forth in the Local
#700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, shall apply.
- 165 -

--- PAGE 239 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 24
(B) High Budget SVOD Series Fewer than 66 Minutes in
Length Per Episode – Tier 2 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-
Demand Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and
Canada
1) First Season
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply to the first
season regardless of where the series is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form
Agreement Rate Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees shall be paid at the rates
set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement during the first season.
2) Second and Subsequent Seasons
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half
Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply to the second
and subsequent seasons regardless of where the series is produced, except that the wage rates set
forth in the Local Agreements for the period immediately preceding the period in question shall
apply during the second and third seasons (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023,
the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply); during the second
season, there shall be no vacation pay and no unworked holiday pay; and during the third season
vacation pay and unworked holiday pay shall be payable at one-half of the applicable percentage
in the Local Agreements. (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each
Local Agreement for wage rates applicable to the second and third seasons.)
Post-production employees employed on the second
or third seasons of the series shall be paid at the rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately
preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage
rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix
B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.) Thereafter, the wage
rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if
applicable, shall apply.
- 166 -

--- PAGE 240 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 25
(C) High Budget SVOD Series 66 Minutes or More in Length
Per Episode – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay
Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
1) First Season
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply to the first
season regardless of where the series is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form
Agreement Rate Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees shall be paid at the rates
set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if
applicable, for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period
July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022
shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700
(Majors) Agreement.)
2) Second and Subsequent Seasons
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half
Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply to the second
and subsequent seasons regardless of where the series is produced, except that the wage rates set
forth in the Local Agreements for the period immediately preceding the period in question shall
apply during the second and third seasons (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023,
the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply); during the second
season, there shall be no vacation pay and no unworked holiday pay; and during the third season
vacation pay and unworked holiday pay shall be payable at one-half of the applicable percentage
in the Local Agreements. (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each
Local Agreement for wage rates applicable to the second and third seasons.)
i) Post-Production Employees on Tier 1
Series – Post-production employees employed on the second season shall be paid at the rates set
forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable,
for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022
to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See
Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.)
Thereafter, the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the
Amendment Agreement if applicable, shall apply.
ii) Post-Production Employees on Tier 2
Series – Post-production employees employed on the second or third seasons shall be paid at the
rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if
applicable, for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period
- 167 -

--- PAGE 241 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 26
July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022
shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700
(Majors) Agreement.) Thereafter, the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, shall apply.
(D) High Budget SVOD Series Intended for Initial Exhibition
on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform with Fewer than 20 Million
Subscribers in the United States and Canada
1) First Season
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply to the first
season regardless of where the series is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form
Agreement Rate Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees shall be paid at the rates
set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement during the first season.
2) Second and Subsequent Seasons
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half
Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply to the second
and subsequent seasons regardless of where the series is produced, except that the wage rates set
forth in the Local Agreements for the period immediately preceding the period in question shall
apply during the second and third seasons (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023,
the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply); during the second
season, there shall be no vacation pay and no unworked holiday pay; and during the third season,
vacation pay and unworked holiday pay shall be payable at one-half of the applicable percentage
in the Local Agreements. (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each
Local Agreement for wage rates applicable to the second and third seasons.)
Post-production employees employed on the second
and third seasons of the series shall be paid at the rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately
preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage
rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix
B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.) Thereafter, the wage
rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if
applicable, shall apply.
- 168 -

--- PAGE 242 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 27
(ii) For High Budget SVOD series (other than a mini-series) subject to
a license agreement entered into on or after August 1, 2022 (or in the absence of a license
agreement, a series for which principal photography of the first episode commences on or after
August 1, 2022) that are intended for initial exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand
consumer pay platform with 20 million or more subscribers in the United States and Canada:
(A) High Budget SVOD Series Fewer than 66 Minutes in
Length Per Episode – Tier 1 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-
Demand Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and
Canada
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half Hour
and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply regardless of where
the series is produced. (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each
Local Agreement for wage rates applicable to the first two seasons.)
Post-production employees employed on the first or second
season of such series shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately
preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage
rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix
B to the Local #3700 (Majors) Agreement.) Thereafter, the wage rates set forth in the Local #700
(Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, shall apply.
(B) High Budget SVOD Series Fewer than 66 Minutes in
Length Per Episode – Tier 2 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-
Demand Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and
Canada
1) First Season
Wage rates shall be as set forth in the Local
Agreements for the period two periods prior to the period in question (e.g., during the period July
31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 2, 2020 to July 31, 2021 shall
apply). (See Paragraph 2 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each Local Agreement.)
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply to the first
season regardless of where the series is produced, except that wage rates shall be as provided in
the preceding paragraph and Paragraph 5(viii) of the Long-Form Sideletter shall be modified to
allow a Producer to pay the daily rate for each day worked in a partial workweek when the
employee is employed in a classification that has a daily rate and proration of the weekly rate is
otherwise not allowed.
- 169 -

--- PAGE 243 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 28
2) Second and Subsequent Seasons
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half
Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply to the second
and subsequent seasons regardless of where the series is produced, except that the wage rates set
forth in the Local Agreements for the period immediately preceding the period in question shall
apply during the second and third seasons (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023,
the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply); during the second
season, there shall be no vacation pay and no unworked holiday pay; and during the third season,
vacation pay and unworked holiday pay shall be payable at one-half of the applicable percentage
in the Local Agreements. (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each
Local Agreement for wage rates applicable to the second and third seasons.)
Post-production employees employed on the second
and third seasons of such series shall be paid at the rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately
preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage
rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix
B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.) Thereafter, the wage
rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if
applicable, shall apply.
(C) High Budget SVOD Series 66 Minutes or More in Length
Per Episode – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay
Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
1) First Season
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply to the first
season regardless of where the series is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form
Agreement Rate Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees shall be paid at the rates
set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if
applicable, for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period
July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022
shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700
(Majors) Agreement.)
2) Second and Subsequent Seasons
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half
Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply to the second
- 170 -

--- PAGE 244 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 29
and subsequent seasons regardless of where the series is produced, except that the wage rates set
forth in the Local Agreements for the period immediately preceding the period in question shall
apply during the second and third seasons (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023,
the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply); during the second
season, there shall be no vacation pay and no unworked holiday pay; and during the third season,
vacation pay and unworked holiday pay shall be payable at one-half of the applicable percentage
in the Local Agreements. (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each
Local Agreement for wage rates applicable to the second and third seasons.)
i) Post-Production Employees on Tier 1
Series – Post-production employees employed on the second season shall be paid at the rates set
forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable,
for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022
to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See
Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.)
Thereafter, the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the
Amendment Agreement if applicable, shall apply.
ii) Post-Production Employees on Tier 2
Series – Post-production employees employed on the second or third seasons shall be paid at the
rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if
applicable, for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period
July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022
shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700
(Majors) Agreement.) Thereafter, the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, shall apply.
(iii) For High Budget SVOD series (other than a mini-series) subject to
a license agreement entered into on or after August 1, 2022 (or in the absence of a license
agreement, a series for which principal photography of the first episode commences on or after
August 1, 2022) that are intended for initial exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand
consumer pay platform with fewer than 20 million subscribers in the United States and Canada:
- 171 -

--- PAGE 245 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 30
(A) High Budget SVOD Series Fewer than 66 Minutes in
Length Per Episode Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand
Consumer Pay Platform with Fewer Than 20 Million Subscribers in the United States and
Canada –
20-35 Minutes in Length and Budgeted at Less Than
$4,000,000 [to be increased by the general wage increase on the Sunday closest to August 1st in
each year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023];20
OR
36-65 Minutes in Length and Budgeted at Less Than
$8,000,000 [to be increased by the general wage increase on the Sunday closest to August 1st in
each year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023]21
1) First Season
Wage rates shall be as set forth in the Local
Agreements for the period two periods prior to the period in question (e.g., during the period July
31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 2, 2020 to July 31, 2021 shall
apply). (See Paragraph 2 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each Local Agreement.)
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply to the first
season regardless of where the series is produced, except that wage rates shall be as provided in
the preceding paragraph and Paragraph 5(viii) of the Long-Form Sideletter shall be modified to
allow a Producer to pay the daily rate for each day worked in a partial workweek when the
employee is employed in a classification that has a daily rate and proration of the weekly rate is
otherwise not allowed.
2) Second and Subsequent Seasons
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half
Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply to the second
and subsequent seasons regardless of where the series is produced, except that the wage rates set
forth in the Local Agreements for the period immediately preceding the period in question shall
apply during the second and third seasons (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023,
the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply); during the second
season, there shall be no vacation pay and no unworked holiday pay; and during the third season,
vacation pay and unworked holiday pay shall be payable at one-half of the applicable percentage
20 The $4,000,0000 budget threshold increases to $4,120,000 effective July 30, 2023.
21 The $8,000,0000 budget threshold increases to $8,240,000 effective July 30, 2023.
- 172 -

--- PAGE 246 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 31
in the Local Agreements. (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each
Local Agreement for wage rates applicable to the second and third seasons.)
Post-production employees employed on the second
or third seasons of such series shall be paid at the rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately
preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage
rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix
B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.) Thereafter, the wage
rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if
applicable, shall apply.
(B) High Budget SVOD Series Fewer than 66 Minutes in
Length Per Episode Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand
Consumer Pay Platform with Fewer Than 20 Million Subscribers in the United States and
Canada –
20-35 Minutes in Length and Budgeted at $4,000,000 or
more [to be increased by the general wage increase on the Sunday closest to August 1st in each
year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023];22
OR
36-65 Minutes in Length and Budgeted at $8,000,000 or
more [to be increased by the general wage increase on the Sunday closest to August 1st in each
year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023]23
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half Hour
and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply regardless of where
the series is produced. (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each
Local Agreement for wage rates applicable to the first two seasons.)
Post-production employees employed on the first and
second seasons of the series shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately
preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage
rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix
B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.) Thereafter, the wage
rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if
applicable, shall apply.
22 The $4,000,0000 budget threshold increases to $4,120,000 effective July 30, 2023.
23 The $8,000,0000 budget threshold increases to $8,240,000 effective July 30, 2023.
- 173 -

--- PAGE 247 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 32
(C) High Budget SVOD Series 66 Minutes or More in Length
Per Episode and Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer
Pay Platform with Fewer Than 20 Million Subscribers in the United States and Canada
1) First Season
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply to the first
season regardless of where the series is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form
Agreement Rate Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees shall be paid at the rates
set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement during the first season.
2) Second and Subsequent Seasons
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half
Hour and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply to the second
and subsequent seasons regardless of where the series is produced, except that the wage rates set
forth in the Local Agreements for the period immediately preceding the period in question shall
apply during the second and third seasons (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023,
the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply); during the second
season, there shall be no vacation pay and no unworked holiday pay; and during the third season,
vacation pay and unworked holiday pay shall be payable at one-half of the applicable percentage
in the Local Agreements. (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each
Local Agreement for wage rates applicable to the second and third seasons.)
Post-production employees employed on the second
and third seasons of the series shall be paid at the rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately
preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage
rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix
B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.) Thereafter, the wage
rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if
applicable, shall apply.
(d) Mini-Series
(i) For High Budget SVOD mini-series subject to a license agreement
entered into before August 1, 2022 (or in the absence of a license agreement, a mini-series for
which principal photography of the first part commences before August 1, 2022) intended for
initial exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform with 20 million or
more subscribers in the United States and Canada:
- 174 -

--- PAGE 248 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 33
(A) Mini-Series Fewer than 66 Minutes in Length Per Part –
Tier 1 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay
Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half Hour
and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced. (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in
each Local Agreement for wage rates.)
Post-production employees shall be paid at the rates set
forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable,
for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022
to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See
Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.)
(B) Mini-Series Fewer than 66 Minutes in Length Per Part –
Tier 2 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay
Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced (see the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates), and post-production employees employed on such High Budget
SVOD mini-series shall be paid at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New
Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.
(C) Mini-Series 66 Minutes or More in Length Per Part –
Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform with
20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates.)
1) Post-production employees employed on Tier 1
High Budget SVOD mini-series shall be paid at the rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors)
Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately
preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage
rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix
B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.)
2) Post-production employees employed on Tier 2
High Budget SVOD mini-series shall be paid at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B
to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.
- 175 -

--- PAGE 249 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 34
(ii) For High Budget SVOD mini-series subject to a license agreement
entered into before August 1, 2022 (or in the absence of a license agreement, a mini-series for
which principal photography of the first part commences before August 1, 2022) intended for
initial exhibition on a subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform with fewer than 20
million subscribers in the United States and Canada:
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where the
mini-series is produced (see the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate Schedules”
for wage rates), and post-production employees employed on such High Budget SVOD mini-
series shall be paid at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media
Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.
(iii) For High Budget SVOD mini-series subject to a license agreement
entered into on or after August 1, 2022 (or in the absence of a license agreement, a mini-series
for which principal photography of the first part commences on or after August 1, 2022) intended
for initial exhibition on a subscription consumer pay platform with 20 million or more
subscribers in the United States and Canada:
(A) Mini-Series Fewer than 66 Minutes in Length Per Part –
Tier 1 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay
Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half Hour
and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced. (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in
each Local Agreement for wage rates.)
Post-production employees shall be paid at the rates set
forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable,
for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022
to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See
Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.)
(B) Mini-Series Fewer than 66 Minutes in Length Per Part –
Tier 2 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay
Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The wage rates set forth in the Local Agreements for the
period two periods prior to the period in question shall apply (e.g., during the period July 31,
2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 2, 2020 to July 31, 2021 shall apply).
(See Paragraph 2 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each Local Agreement for wage
rates.)
- 176 -

--- PAGE 250 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 35
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced, except that wage rates shall be as provided in the preceding
paragraph and Paragraph 5(viii) of the Long-Form Sideletter shall be modified to allow a
Producer to pay the daily rate for each day worked in a partial workweek when the employee is
employed in a classification that has a daily rate and proration of the weekly rate is otherwise not
allowed.
(C) Mini-Series 66 Minutes or More in Length Per Part –
Budgeted at Less than $4,000,000 Per Part – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription
Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United
States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees employed on the Program shall
be paid at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the
Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.
(D) Mini-Series 66 Minutes or More in Length Per Part –
Budgeted at $4,000,000 or More but No More than $6,000,000 Per Part [to be increased by the
general wage increases on the Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement
beginning July 30, 2023]24 – Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand
Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
Employees (other than post-production employees) shall be
paid at the wage rates set forth in the Local Agreements for the period two periods prior to the
period in question shall apply (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage
rates for the period August 2, 2020 to July 31, 2021 shall apply). (See Paragraph 2 of Appendix
B to the New Media Sideletter in each Local Agreement for wage rates.)
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced, except that wage rates shall be as provided in the preceding
paragraph and Paragraph 5(viii) of the Long-Form Sideletter shall be modified to allow a
Producer to pay the daily rate for each day worked in a partial workweek when the employee is
employed in a classification that has a daily rate and proration of the weekly rate is otherwise not
allowed.
24 The $6,000,000 budget threshold increases to $6,180,000 effective July 30, 2023.
- 177 -

--- PAGE 251 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 36
Post-production employees shall be paid at the wage rates
set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if
applicable, for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period
July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022
shall apply). (See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700
(Majors) Agreement.)
(E) Mini-Series 66 Minutes or More in Length Per Part –
Budgeted at More than $6,000,000 Per Part [to be increased by the general wage increases on
the Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023],25 But
Less than $9,500,000 Per Part [to be increased by the general wage increases on the Sunday
closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023]26 – Intended for
Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform with 20 Million
or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
Wage rates shall be as set forth in the Local Agreements for
the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to
July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply). (See
Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement
and Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in all other Local Agreements for
wage rates.)
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced, except that wage rates shall be as provided in the preceding
paragraph and Paragraph 5(viii) of the Long-Form Sideletter shall be modified to allow a
Producer to pay the daily rate for each day worked in a partial workweek when the employee is
employed in a classification that has a daily rate and proration of the weekly rate is otherwise not
allowed.
(F) Mini-Series 66 Minutes or More in Length Per Part –
Budgeted at $9,500,000 or More Per Part [to be increased by the general wage increases on the
Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023]27 –
Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform with
20 Million or More Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half Hour
and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced.
25 The $6,000,000 budget threshold increases to $6,180,000 effective July 30, 2023.
26 The $9,500,000 budget threshold increases to $9,785,000 effective July 30, 2023.
27 The $9,500,000 budget threshold increases to $9,785,000 effective July 30, 2023.
- 178 -

--- PAGE 252 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 37
Post-production employees employed on such mini-series
shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the
Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately preceding the period in
question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period
August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply).
(See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media
Sideletter in each Local Agreement for wage rates.)
(iv) For High Budget SVOD mini-series subject to a license agreement
entered into on or after August 1, 2022 (or in the absence of a license agreement, a mini-series
for which principal photography of the first part commences on or after August 1, 2022) intended
for initial exhibition on a subscription consumer pay platform with fewer than 20 million
subscribers in the United States and Canada:
(A) Mini-Series Fewer than 66 Minutes in Length Per Part –
Budgeted at Less Than $8,000,000 Per Part [to be increased by the general wage increase on the
Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023]28 –
Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform with
Fewer Than 20 Million Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The wage rates set forth in the Local Agreements for the
period two periods prior to the period in question shall apply (e.g., during the period July 31,
2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 2, 2020 to July 31, 2021 shall apply).
(See Paragraph 2 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each Local Agreement for wage
rates.)
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced, except that wage rates shall be as provided in the preceding
paragraph and Paragraph 5(viii) of the Long-Form Sideletter shall be modified to allow a
Producer to pay the daily rate for each day worked in a partial workweek when the employee is
employed in a classification that has a daily rate and proration of the weekly rate is otherwise not
allowed.
(B) Mini-Series Fewer than 66 Minutes in Length Per Part –
Budgeted at $8,000,000 or More Per Part [to be increased by the general wage increase on the
Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023]29 –
Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform with
Fewer Than 20 Million Subscribers in the United States and Canada
28 The $8,000,0000 budget threshold increases to $8,240,000 effective July 30, 2023.
29 The $8,000,0000 budget threshold increases to $8,240,000 effective July 30, 2023.
- 179 -

--- PAGE 253 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 38
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half Hour
and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced.
Post-production employees shall be paid at the rates set
forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the Amendment Agreement if applicable,
for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022
to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply).
(See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media
Sideletter in each Local Agreement for wage rates.)
(C) Mini-Series 66 Minutes or More in Length Per Part –
Budgeted at $6,000,000 or Less Per Part [to be increased by the general wage increases on the
Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023]30
– Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform
with Fewer Than 20 Million Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced. (See the “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate
Schedules” for wage rates.)
Post-production employees employed on the Program shall
be paid at the rates set forth in Paragraph 3 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in the
Local #700 (Majors) Agreement.
(D) Mini-Series 66 Minutes or More in Length Per Part –
Budgeted at More than $6,000,000 Per Part [to be increased by the general wage increases on
the Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023],31 But
Less than $9,500,000 Per Part [to be increased by the general wage increases on the Sunday
closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023]32 – Intended for
Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform with Fewer Than
20 Million Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The wage rates set forth in the Local Agreements for the
period two periods prior to the period in question shall apply (e.g., during the period July 31,
2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 2, 2020 to July 31, 2021 shall apply).
(See Paragraph 2 of Appendix B to the New Media Sideletter in each Local Agreement for wage
rates.)
30 The $6,000,000 budget threshold increases to $6,180,000 effective July 30, 2023.
31 The $6,000,000 budget threshold increases to $6,180,000 effective July 30, 2023.
32 The $9,500,000 budget threshold increases to $9,785,000 effective July 30, 2023.
- 180 -

--- PAGE 254 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 39
The Long-Form Sideletter shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced, except that wage rates shall be as provided in the preceding
paragraph and Paragraph 5(viii) of the Long-Form Sideletter shall be modified to allow a
Producer to pay the daily rate for each day worked in a partial workweek when the employee is
employed in a classification that has a daily rate and proration of the weekly rate is otherwise not
allowed.
(E) Mini-Series 66 Minutes or More in Length Per Part –
Budgeted at $9,500,000 or More Per Part [to be increased by the general wage increases on the
Sunday closest to August 1st in each year of the Agreement beginning July 30, 2023]33 –
Intended for Initial Exhibition on a Subscription Video-on-Demand Consumer Pay Platform with
Fewer Than 20 Million Subscribers in the United States and Canada
The “Sideletter re Special Conditions for One-Half Hour
and One-Hour Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series” shall apply regardless of where
the mini-series is produced.
Post-production employees employed on such mini-series
shall be paid at the wage rates set forth in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement, including the
Amendment Agreement if applicable, for the period immediately preceding the period in
question (e.g., during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period
August 1, 2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply).
(See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B to the New Media
Sideletter in each Local Agreement for wage rates.)
(e) Other Terms and Conditions Applicable to All High Budget SVOD
Programs
(i) Daily overtime for hours worked shall be paid at the rate of time-
and-one-half for each hour worked after eight (8) work hours, except as otherwise provided in a
Local Agreement; golden hours, when applicable, shall be paid for each hour worked after
twelve (12) work hours, except that on “bus to” and distant locations, golden hours shall be paid
after fourteen (14) elapsed hours.
(ii) Preference of employment under the provisions of Paragraph 68 of
the West Coast Studio Local Agreements shall apply on a High Budget SVOD Program to the
same extent required on a free television motion picture. Days worked on a High Budget SVOD
Program shall count towards placement on the Industry Experience Roster.
33 The $9,500,000 budget threshold increases to $9,785,000 effective July 30, 2023.
- 181 -

--- PAGE 255 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 40
(iii) Paragraph E.(6) of this Sideletter shall apply.
(iv) The second paragraph of Paragraph C. shall apply to any High
Budget SVOD Program that is a Derivative New Media Production.
(5) Reuse
Only those covered High Budget SVOD Programs on which two (2) or more
“employees employed by the Producer under the Basic Agreement,” as that term is used in
Article XIX(a) and in Article XXVIII(a)(2) of the Basic Agreement,34 shall generate residual
payments and then only in accordance with the following:
(a) Except as provided in subparagraph (c) below, the Producer shall have the
right to use a High Budget SVOD Program on any consumer pay platform (including any
domestic or foreign subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform that is related to or
affiliated with the subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform on which the High
Budget SVOD Program was initially exhibited) without payment of residuals.
(b) Except as provided in subparagraph (c) below, Producer shall have the
right to use a High Budget SVOD Program on any free-to-the-consumer, advertiser-supported
platform without payment of residuals.
(c) If a High Budget SVOD Program is initially exhibited simultaneously on
a free-to-the-consumer, advertiser-supported platform and the subscription video-on-demand
consumer pay platform (including any domestic or foreign subscription video-on-demand
consumer pay platform that is related to or affiliated with the subscription video-on-demand
consumer pay platform on which the High Budget SVOD Program was initially exhibited), then
Producer shall have a twenty-six (26) consecutive week period of use on the subscription video-
on-demand consumer pay platform (including any domestic or foreign subscription video-on-
demand consumer pay platform that is related to or affiliated with the subscription video-on-
demand consumer pay platform on which the High Budget SVOD Program was initially
exhibited), commencing with the first day of use on the subscription video-on-demand consumer
pay platform, without the payment of residuals.
If the Producer uses the High Budget SVOD Program on a consumer pay
platform beyond such twenty-six (26) consecutive week period, then Producer shall pay to the
Motion Picture Industry Pension and/or Health Plans 5.4% of the “Producer’s gross,” as that
term is defined in Paragraph 3 of the “Sideletter re Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted
34 It is understood and agreed that any employee employed under the terms of the corresponding
"Productions Made for New Media" Sideletter in either the Local #52 Agreement or in the Local #161
Agreement shall not be considered an "employee employed under the Basic Agreement" for purposes of
Paragraph G.(5) of this Sideletter.
- 182 -

--- PAGE 256 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 41
Via New Media,” realized from any subsequent license which includes use on consumer pay
platforms, which “gross” is attributable to use on consumer pay platforms beyond the twenty-six
(26) consecutive week period, measured from the first day of use on the subscription video-on-
demand consumer pay platform under the first license.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Producer shall have the right to exhibit a
High Budget SVOD Program (including any one-time program or the first three (3) episodes of a
new series) simultaneously on a free-to-the-consumer, advertiser-supported platform and the
subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform (including any domestic or foreign
subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform that is related to or affiliated with the
subscription video-on-demand consumer pay platform on which the High Budget SVOD
Program was initially exhibited) for a period of seven (7) consecutive days for the purpose of
promoting the High Budget SVOD Program, without triggering payment of residuals as provided
in the preceding paragraph.
(d) Paragraph F.(2) of this Sideletter regarding reuse of New Media
productions in traditional media shall apply to High Budget SVOD Programs.
(e) Paragraph F.(3) of this Sideletter regarding the tests for triggering
Supplemental Markets payments and the proration provisions in XXVIII of the Basic Agreement
shall apply to residual payments due under this Paragraph G.(5).
(f) (i) The following shall apply to a High Budget SVOD Program (other
than a pilot, episode of a series or part of a mini-series) produced during the term of, and subject
to, this Agreement that is:
(A) 96 minutes or longer with a budget in excess of
$32,781,810 (in excess of $49,172,715 for an animated High Budget SVOD Program) [budget
thresholds to be increased by the wage increases in each year of the Agreement35];36
35 The budget threshold for such a live action High Budget SVOD Program increases to over
$33,765,264 effective July 31, 2022 and to over $34,778,222 effective July 30, 2023; the budget threshold
for such an animated High Budget SVOD Program increases to more than $50,647,896 effective July 31,
2022 and to more than $52,167,333 effective July 30, 2023.
36 The budget shall be determined by the production costs, including the "above" and "below the line"
costs and "pre-production" and "post-production" costs. Production costs shall not include: (a) the costs
of the premium for a completion bond; (b) a contingency fund not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the
budget; (c) costs reimbursed by insurance; and (d) overages caused by a force majeure event or
governmental action. Employer shall provide the IATSE, upon request, with a report of the actual
expenditures of the production ("Final Expenditure Report") and such other relevant materials as the
IATSE may require which show the actual cost of the production. All information received or reviewed
by representative of the IATSE or retained professionals shall be confidential and neither the IATSE nor
- 183 -

--- PAGE 257 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 42
(B) intended primarily for use on a subscription consumer pay
video-on-demand new media service;
(C) subject to a license agreement with an SVOD service with
more than 1,000,000 domestic subscribers, which license agreement was entered into on or after
January 1, 2019 (or, in the absence of a license agreement, the principal photography of which
commences on or after January 1, 2019); and
(D) produced with employees employed by Producer under this
Agreement, as defined in Article XXVIII.(c)(1)(iii) of this Agreement and as further clarified in
subparagraph (g) of Article XXVIII. of this Agreement.
(ii) If such Program is released in theaters in the United States or
Canada and an admission fee is charged to view the Program,37 Producer shall make a payment
to the Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan38 in the amount of:
(A) five and four-tenths percent (5.4%) of the straight time
scale earnings of all employees employed on the live action High Budget SVOD Program under
the Basic Agreement; or
(B) three and six-tenths percent (3.6%) of the straight time
scale earnings of all employees employed on the animated High Budget SVOD Program under
the Basic Agreement.
Such payment shall be due in equal installments over eight (8)
consecutive calendar quarters commencing sixty (60) calendar days following the close of the
calendar or fiscal quarter in which the initial domestic theatrical release occurred. Payment of
the foregoing amounts covers all theatrical exhibitions of the Program in perpetuity.
its representatives or retained professionals shall disclose any such information except as necessary to
enforce their rights under the Agreement.
37 It is understood that when the Program is exhibited at a film festival or charitable event, no payment
shall be due hereunder if (a) an admission fee is charged only for the festival or the event (but not for the
Program itself) or (b) an admission fee is charged for the Program. In addition, the IATSE shall not
unreasonably deny waivers of this provision for exhibition at an educational institution or similar
circumstances.
38 The bargaining parties agree that this payment shall not reduce the minimum funding otherwise
required for the Pension Plan (in other words, when determining whether the minimum funding
requirement of the Pension Plan has been met, no reduction shall be made in the amount of Supplemental
Markets monies that would otherwise be allocated to the Pension Plan by reason of amounts payable
under this provision).
- 184 -

--- PAGE 258 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Productions Made for New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 43
It is understood that a theatrical motion picture that is exhibited on
a subscription video-on-demand consumer pay new media platform is not subject to the
foregoing residual; instead, the Sideletter re Exhibition of Traditional Motion Pictures Via New
Media applies.
(iii) This Paragraph G.(5)(f) shall expire upon termination of the 2021
IATSE Basic Agreement.
(6) The number of subscribers in the United States and Canada shall be determined as
of July 1st of each year of the Agreement. For a High Budget SVOD series, the number of
subscribers that applies to the first episode of the season shall apply to the entire season in
perpetuity.
H. Representatives of the IATSE shall have the right to review the budget of a covered new
media production solely for the purpose of determining whether the covered new media
production falls within the definition of a Mid-Budget SVOD Program as set forth in Paragraph
D.(3) above or a High Budget SVOD Program as set forth in Paragraph G. above, and, if so,
whether the production meets the budget break in Tier 1 or Tier 2 as set forth in Paragraph G.(3)
above. Producer agrees to cooperate and provide requested relevant additional information about
the budget that is reasonably available to it. All information received or reviewed by
representatives of the IATSE shall be kept confidential, and neither the IATSE nor its
representatives shall disclose any such information, except as necessary to enforce its rights
under this Agreement.
I. “Sunset” Clause
The parties recognize that these provisions are being negotiated at a time when the
business models and patterns of usage of productions in New Media are in the process of
exploration, experimentation and innovation. Therefore, except as provided in the next
paragraph, the provisions of this Sideletter shall expire on the termination date of the Basic
Agreement and will be of no force and effect thereafter. No later than sixty (60) days before that
expiration date, the parties will meet to negotiate new terms and conditions for reuse of
productions made for New Media.
The terms and conditions herein applicable to High Budget SVOD Programs, other than
the provisions of Paragraph G.(5)(f) herein, shall apply and remain in full force and effect, and
without change, to High Budget SVOD Programs produced by the Producer hereunder,
regardless of the terms or provisions of any agreement which is a modification, extension or
renewal of, or substitution for, this Sideletter.
- 185 -

--- PAGE 260 of 277 ---

APPENDIX A
The sole purpose of the charts in this Appendix A is to summarize the provisions of
Paragraph G.(4) of the Sideletter re: Productions Made for New Media to the 2021 IATSE Basic
Agreement. To the extent that any of the information in these charts is inconsistent with any of
the provisions of Paragraph G.(4), the provisions of Paragraph G.(4) will govern.
• “One-Hour Sideletter” = Sideletter re: Special Conditions for One-Half Hour and One-Hour
Pilots and One-Hour Episodic Television Series
• “Long-Form Sideletter” = Sideletter re: Special Conditions for Long-Form Television
Motion Pictures (Including Movies-of-the-Week, Mini-Series and Two (2) Hour Pilots for
Which No Commitment Exists at the Time of the Pilot Order)
• “1x back” = wage rates for the period immediately preceding the period in question (e.g.,
during the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 1,
2021 to July 30, 2022 shall apply)
• “2x back” = wage rates for the period two periods prior to the period in question (e.g., during
the period July 31, 2022 to July 29, 2023, the wage rates for the period August 2, 2020 to
July 31, 2021 shall apply)
• “Appendix B” = Appendix B to the Sideletter re: Sideletter to the 2021 Producer-IATSE
Basic Agreement re Productions Made for New Media in each West Coast Studio Local
Agreement
Symbol Terms and Conditions
• One-Hour Sideletter applies regardless of where the Program is produced.
o See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B for wage rates (on a series, applicable during first
two seasons; regular television rates apply thereafter)
A
• Post-production employees’ wage rates = 1x back (on a series, applicable during first two
seasons; regular television rates apply thereafter)
o See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement
• Long-Form Sideletter applies regardless of where the Program is produced.
o See “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate Schedules” for wage rates
B
• Post-production employees’ wage rates = Paragraph 3 of Appendix B in the Local #700
(Majors) Agreement
• Long-Form Sideletter applies regardless of where the Program is produced.
o See “Made for Television Long-Form Agreement Rate Schedules” for wage rates
C
• Post-production employees’ wage rates = 1x back
o See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement
• Wage rates (including post-production employees) = 2x back
o See Paragraph 2 of Appendix B
D • Long-Form Sideletter applies regardless of where the Program is produced, except
Producer may pay the daily rate for each day worked in a partial workweek when the
employee is employed in a classification that has a daily rate.
• Wage rates (other than post-production employees) = 2x back
o See Paragraph 2 of Appendix B
• Post-production employees’ wage rates = 1x back
E o See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement
• Long-Form Sideletter applies regardless of where the Program is produced, except
Producer may pay the daily rate for each day worked in a partial workweek when the
employee is employed in a classification that has a daily rate.
- 187 -

--- PAGE 261 of 277 ---

Symbol Terms and Conditions
• Wage rates (including post-production employees) = 1x back
o See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B in the Local #700 (Majors) Agreement and Paragraph
3 of Appendix B in all other West Coast Studio Local Agreements
F
• Long-Form Sideletter applies regardless of where the Program is produced, except
Producer may pay the daily rate for each day worked in a partial workweek when the
employee is employed in a classification that has a daily rate.
G • Wages and other terms and conditions are those applicable to a theatrical motion picture
• One-Hour Sideletter applies regardless of where the Program is produced.
o See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B for wage rates applicable during second and third
H seasons on a series; regular television rates apply thereafter
• Post-production employees’ wage rates = 1x back during second and third seasons on a
series; regular television rates apply thereafter
• One-Hour Sideletter applies regardless of where the Program is produced.
o See Paragraph 1 of Appendix B for wage rates applicable during second and third
I seasons on a series; regular television rates apply thereafter
• Post-production employees’ wage rates = 1x back during second season on a series;
regular television rates apply thereafter
- 188 -

--- PAGE 262 of 277 ---

ONE-TIME HIGH BUDGET SVOD PROGRAMS (OTHER THAN PILOTS) – PARAGRAPH G.(4)(a)
LICENSE AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO BEFORE AUGUST 1, 2022 (or LICENSE AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO ON OR AFTER AUGUST 1, 2022
principal photography commences before August 1, 2022 if no license (or principal photography commences on or after August 1, 2022 if no
agreement) license agreement)
Length Budget Terms & Conditions Length Budget Terms & Conditions
≥ 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA ≥ 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA
20-35 minutes: ≥ $2,100,000 20-35 minutes: ≥ $2,100,000
A – ¶ G.(4)(a)(i)(A) A – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iii)(A)
<66
36-65 minutes: ≥ $3,800,000
<66 36-65 minutes: ≥ $3,800,000
Minutes 20-35 minutes: ≥ $1,300,000 < $2,100,000
B – ¶ G.(4)(a)(i)(B)
Minutes 20-35 minutes: ≥ $1,300,000 < $2,100,000
36-65 minutes: ≥ $2,500,000 < $3,800,000 B – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iii)(B)
36-65 minutes: ≥ $2,500,000 < $3,800,000
66 – 95 ≥ $4,000,000 C – ¶ G.(4)(a)(i)(C)1) 66 – 84 ≥ $4,000,000 C – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iii)(C)
Minutes
≥ $3,000,000 < $4,000,000 B – ¶ G.(4)(a)(i)(D) Minutes
≥ $3,000,000 < $4,000,000 B – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iii)(D)
≥ $32,781,810* G – ¶ G.(4)(a)(i)(C)2) ≥ $20,000,000* E – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iii)(F)1)
≥ $4,500,000 (plus $2,250,000 for each 85 – 95
≥ $4,000,000 < $20,000,000* C – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iii)(E)1)
Minutes
additional 35 minutes or portion thereof) C – ¶ G.(4)(a)(i)(C)1)
≥ 96 ≥ $3,000,000 < $4,000,000 B – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iii)(E)2)
< $32,781,810*
Minutes
≥ $33,765,264† G – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iii)(F)2)
≥ $3,000,000 < $4,500,000
(plus $2,250,000 for each additional 35 B – ¶ G.(4)(a)(i)(D) ≥ $20,000,000* < $33,765,264† E – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iii)(E)1)
minutes or portion thereof)
≥ $4,500,000 (plus $2,250,000 for each
≥ 96 additional 35 minutes or portion thereof) C – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iii)(E)1)
< 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA
Minutes
< $20,000,000*
Any
Any Budget B – ¶ G.(4)(a)(ii) ≥ $3,000,000 < $4,500,000
Length
(plus $2,250,000 for each additional 35 B – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iii)(E)2)
* Increases to $33,765,264 effective July 31, 2022 and to $34,778,222
minutes or portion thereof)
effective July 30, 2023.
< 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA
< 85
Any Budget B – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iv)(A)
Minutes
≥ 85 ≥ $20,000,000† D – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iv)(C)
Minutes <$20,000,000† B – ¶ G.(4)(a)(iv)(B)
* Increases to $20,600,000 effective July 30, 2023.
† Increases to $34,778,222 effective July 30, 2023.
- 189 -

--- PAGE 263 of 277 ---

PILOTS
Length Budget Terms & Conditions
≥ 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA
≥ $2,100,000 A – ¶ G.(4)(b)(i)
20-35 Minutes
≥ $1,300,000 < $2,100,000 B – ¶ G.(4)(b)(ii)
≥ $3,800,000 A – ¶ G.(4)(b)(i)
36-65 Minutes
≥ $2,500,000 < $3,800,000 B – ¶ G.(4)(b)(ii)
≥ $4,000,000
A – ¶ G.(4)(b)(i)
66-95 Minutes
≥ $3,000,000 < $4,000,000
B – ¶ G.(4)(b)(ii)
≥ $4,500,000
A (or C if no commitment for
(plus $2,250,000 for each a series at the time of order)
additional 35 minutes or portion
¶ G.(4)(b)(i)
thereof)
≥ 96 Minutes
≥ $3,000,000 < $4,500,000
(plus $2,250,000 for each B – ¶ G.(4)(b)(ii)
additional 35 minutes or portion
thereof)
< 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA
Any Length Any Budget B – ¶ G.(4)(b)(iii)
- 190 -

--- PAGE 264 of 277 ---

SERIES (OTHER THAN MINI-SERIES)
LICENSE AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO BEFORE AUGUST 1, 2022 (or LICENSE AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO ON OR AFTER AUGUST 1, 2022 (or
principal photography commences before August 1, 2022 if no license principal photography commences on or after August 1, 2022 if no license
agreement) agreement)
Length Budget Terms & Conditions Length Budget Terms & Conditions
≥ 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA ≥ 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA
≥ $2,100,000 A – ¶ G.(4)(c)(i)(A) ≥ $2,100,000 A – ¶ G.(4)(c)(ii)(A)
20 – 35
20 – 35 Season 1: D – ¶ G.(4)(c)(ii)(B)1)
Minutes ≥ $1,300,000 < $2,100,000
Season 1: B – ¶ G.(4)(c)(i)(B)1) Minutes ≥ $1,300,000 < $2,100,000
Seasons 2+: H – ¶ G.(4)(c)(ii)(B)2)
Seasons 2+: H – ¶ G.(4)(c)(i)(B)2)
≥ $3,800,000 A – ¶ G.(4)(c)(ii)(A)
36 – 65
≥ $3,800,000 A – ¶ G.(4)(c)(i)(A) Minutes ≥ $2,500,000 < $3,800,000 Season 1: D – ¶ G.(4)(c)(ii)(B)1)
Seasons 2+: H – ¶ G.(4)(c)(ii)(B)2)
36 – 65
Season 1: C – ¶ G.(4)(c)(i)(B)1) 66-95 minutes: ≥ $4,000,000
Minutes
≥ $2,500,000 < $3,800,000 Seasons 2+: H – ¶ G.(4)(c)(i)(B)2) Season 1: C
≥ 96 minutes: ≥ $4,500,000
Seasons 2+: I
(plus $2,250,000 for each additional 35
¶ G.(4)(c)(ii)(C)1)
66-95 minutes: ≥ $4,000,000 ≥ 66 minutes or portion thereof)
Season 1: C – ¶ G.(4)(c)(i)(C)1)
≥ 96 minutes: ≥ $4,500,000
Seasons 2+: I – ¶ G.(4)(c)(i)(C)2)i)
Minutes
66-95 minutes: ≥ $3,000,000 < $4,000,000
Season 1: B
(plus $2,250,000 for each additional 35 ≥ 96 minutes: ≥ $3,000,000 < $4,500,000
minutes or portion thereof)
Seasons 2+: H
(plus $2,250,000 for each additional 35
¶ G.(4)(c)(ii)(C)2)
≥ 66
66-95 minutes: ≥ $3,000,000 < minutes or portion thereof)
Minutes
$4,000,000
Season 1: B – ¶ G.(4)(c)(i)(C)1) < 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA
≥ 96 minutes: ≥ $3,000,000 <
Seasons 2+: H – ¶ G.(4)(c)(i)(C)2)ii)
$4,500,000 ≥ $4,000,000* A – ¶ G.(4)(c)(iii)(B)
20 – 35
(plus $2,250,000 for each additional 35 Season 1: D – ¶ G.(4)(c)(iii)(A)1)
Minutes ≥ $1,300,000 < $4,000,000*
minutes or portion thereof) Seasons 2+: H – ¶ G.(4)(c)(iii)(A)2)
≥ $8,000,000† A – ¶ G.(4)(c)(iii)(B)
< 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA 36 – 65
Season 1: D – ¶ G.(4)(c)(iii)(A)1)
Minutes ≥ $2,500,000 < $8,000,000†
Season 1: B Seasons 2+: H – ¶ G.(4)(c)(iii)(A)2)
Any
Any Budget Seasons 2+: H Season 1: B
Length ≥ 66
Any budget Seasons 2+: H
¶ G.(4)(c)(i)(D) Minutes
¶ G.(4)(c)(iii)(C)
* Increases to $4,120,000 effective July 30, 2023.
†
Increases to $8,240,000 effective July 30, 2023.
- 191 -

--- PAGE 265 of 277 ---

MINI-SERIES
LICENSE AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO BEFORE AUGUST 1, 2022 (or LICENSE AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO ON OR AFTER AUGUST 1, 2022
principal photography commences before August 1, 2022 if no license (or principal photography commences on or after August 1, 2022 if no
agreement) license agreement)
Length Budget Terms & Conditions Length Budget Terms & Conditions
≥ 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA ≥ 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA
20-35 minutes: ≥ $2,100,000
A – ¶ G.(4)(d)(i)(A)
2
3
0
6
-
-
3
6
5
5
m
m
i
i
n
n
u
u
t
t
e
e
s
s
:
:
≥
≥
$
$
2
3
,
,
1
8
0
0
0
0
,
,
0
0
0
0
0
0 A – ¶ G.(4)(d)(iii)(A)
20 – 65 36-65 minutes: ≥ $3,800,000
20 – 65 20-35 minutes: ≥ $1,300,000 <
Minutes
20-35 minutes: ≥ $1,300,000 < $2,100,000
B – ¶ G.(4)(d)(i)(B) Minutes $2,100,000 D – ¶ G.(4)(d)(iii)(B)
36-65 minutes: ≥ $2,500,000 < $3,800,000 36-65 minutes: ≥ $2,500,000 <
66-95 minutes: ≥ $4,000,000 $3,800,000
≥ 96 minutes: ≥ $4,500,000 ≥ $9,500,000* A – ¶ G.(4)(d)(iii)(F)
C – ¶ G.(4)(d)(i)(C)1)
(plus $2,250,000 for each additional 35 ≥ 66 > $6,000,000† < $9,500,000* F – ¶ G.(4)(d)(iii)(E)
≥ 66 minutes or portion thereof)
Minutes
Minutes ≥ $4,000,000 ≤ $6,000,000† E – ¶ G.(4)(d)(iii)(D)
66-95 minutes: ≥ $3,000,000 < $4,000,000
≥ 96 minutes: ≥ $3,000,000 < $4,500,000 ≥ $3,000,000 < $4,000,000 B – ¶ G.(4)(d)(iii)(C)
B – ¶ G.(4)(d)(i)(C)2)
(plus $2,250,000 for each additional 35
< 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA
minutes or portion thereof)
< 20 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS IN U.S. & CANADA 20 – 65 ≥ $8,000,000˟ A – ¶ G.(4)(d)(iv)(B)
Minutes
< $8,000,000˟ D – ¶ G.(4)(d)(iv)(A)
Any
Any Budget B – ¶ G.(4)(d)(ii)
Length ≥ $9,500,000† A – ¶ G.(4)(d)(iv)(E)
≥ 66
> $6,000,000† < $9,500,000* D – ¶ G.(4)(d)(iv)(D)
Minutes
≤ $6,000,000† B – ¶ G.(4)(d)(iv)(C)
* Increases to $9,785,000 effective July 30, 2023.
† Increases to $6,180,000 effective July 30, 2023.
˟ Increases to $8,240,000 effective July 30, 2023.
- 192 -

--- PAGE 266 of 277 ---

ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS
15301 Ventura Boulevard, Building E, Sherman Oaks, CA 91403
Tel: 818.995.3600 • Fax: 818.285.4450 • www.amptp.org
Carol A. Lombardini Direct: 818.935.5930
President
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Matthew D. Loeb
International President
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and
Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts
of the United States, its Territories and Canada
207 West 25th Street, 4th Floor
New York, New York 10001
Re: Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted Via New Media
Dear Matt:
This Sideletter confirms the understanding of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage
Employees (“the Union”) and the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, on
behalf of the Producers it represented in negotiations for a successor agreement to the 2018
Producer – IATSE Basic Agreement (collectively “the parties”), concerning the application of
the 2021 Producer – IATSE Basic Agreement (hereinafter “the Basic Agreement”) to the
exhibition on the Internet, mobile devices (such as cell phones or PDAs) and any other new
media platform known as of August 1, 2009 (hereinafter collectively referred to as “New
Media”) of theatrical and television motion pictures, the principal photography of which
commenced on or after February 1, 1973.1, 2
1 The payments provided for under this Sideletter shall only be due in connection with those
theatrical and television motion pictures to which the Supplemental Markets provisions of the
Basic Agreement apply. It is agreed that the proration provisions, and the understandings set
forth in subparagraph (g) of the Supplemental Markets provision, shall apply to any payments
due under this Sideletter.
2 For "feature length primarily animated motion pictures," as that term is defined in subsection
(f)(1) of Article XXVIII of the Basic Agreement, this understanding applies only to those feature
length primarily animated motion pictures produced and/or released on or after November 1,
1992, as provided in Article XXVIII(f)(2).
- 193 -

--- PAGE 267 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted Via New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 2
1. If the Consumer Pays
a. License for Limited Period or Fixed Number of Exhibitions
When the subscriber pays for the program either on a subscription or per-
picture basis, and when the payment is in exchange for the right to view
the motion picture for a fixed and limited period of time or a fixed number
of exhibitions, the Producer shall pay to the Motion Picture Industry
Pension and Health Plans five and four-tenths percent (5.4%)3, 4 of
“Producer’s gross,” as defined in Paragraph 3 below,5 subject to the
Producer’s right to prorate on a comparable basis as provided in Article
XXVIII of the Basic Agreement.
The parties agree that the residuals due under this Paragraph 1.a. shall be
payable in the same manner and to the same extent as applicable to pay
television and pay-per-view as provided in the following provisions of the
Basic Agreement (subject to conforming changes as necessary):
3 In the case of feature length primarily animated motion pictures, the percentage payable shall
be two percent (2%) for those titles listed in subparagraph (B) of Article XXVIII(f)(2)(ii) and
shall be three and six-tenths percent (3.6%) for any such motion picture which has or had its
initial theatrical release on or after November 1, 1992.
4 Should a Producer enter into a license agreement on or after August 1, 2015 with respect to
motion pictures covered under this Basic Agreement and/or under any prior Basic Agreement
that requires Post '60s and/or Supplemental Market payments and that provides a minimum
guarantee or non-returnable advance to the Producer in exchange for theatrical distribution rights
as well as distribution rights of the theatrical motion picture in one or more other markets for
which payments are due under this Agreement, including under this Sideletter, the percentage
payable shall be four and one-half percent (4.5%) of the "Producer's gross" as set forth in Article
XXVIIIA.
5 As bargaining history, this language is based upon the following model: studio licenses to
Movielink (formerly known as Moviefly) the right to transmit the motion picture on the Internet
to the viewer who pays Movielink on a subscription or per-picture basis. Such payment would
enable the viewer to view the motion picture for a fixed and limited period of time or limited
number of exhibitions. For example, if Columbia Pictures, through Columbia-TriStar Home
Entertainment, licenses to Movielink the right to exhibit a Columbia Pictures film, the residuals
shall be based upon 100% of the license fee paid by Movielink to Columbia-TriStar Home
Entertainment for such picture.
- 194 -

--- PAGE 268 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted Via New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 3
• Article XXVIII(b)(3)(iv) (foreign receipts);
• Article XXVIII(b)(7) and (b)(10) (time of payment, payment
requirements and reporting);
• Article XXVIII(b)(11) and (12) (transfer and assumption); and
• Article XXVIII(c), (d), (e), (f) and (g).
b. Paid Permanent Downloads (“Download-to-Own” or “Electronic Sell
Through”) (“EST”)
The following shall apply only to motion pictures released after August 1,
2009:
If the consumer pays for an EST copy of a theatrical motion picture, the
Producer shall pay to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and/or Health
Plans 8.1% of 20% of “Producer’s gross,” as that term is defined in
Paragraph 3 below, for the first 50,000 units and 14.625% thereafter.
If the consumer pays for an EST copy of a television motion picture, the
Producer shall pay to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and/or Health
Plans 8.1% of 20% of “Producer’s gross,” as that term is defined in
Paragraph 3 below, for the first 100,000 units and 15.75% thereafter.6
2. If the Consumer Does Not Pay
Should the Producer stream a theatrical motion picture on a free-to-the-consumer
basis on advertiser-supported services transmitted via the Internet or mobile
device, it shall pay to the Motion Picture Industry Pension and/or Health Plans
5.4% of “Producer’s gross,” as defined in Paragraph 3 below.6
3. “Producer’s Gross”
a. Definition
The term “Producer’s gross,” for purposes of all reuses in new media of
theatrical and television motion pictures made for traditional media (each
6 See footnote no. 4 above.
- 195 -

--- PAGE 269 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted Via New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 4
hereinafter referred to as “Such Picture”), shall be as defined in Article
XXVIII(b)(1)(ii), except as provided in Article XXVIIIA.(a).7
When the “Producer’s gross” derived from new media exploitation is
received from a related or affiliated entity that acts as the exhibitor/retailer
of such Picture, then the “Producer’s gross” received by the Producer from
the licensing of such rights shall be measured by the exhibitor/retailer’s
payments to unrelated and unaffiliated entities in arms’ length transactions
for comparable pictures, or, if none, then the amounts received by the
Producer from unrelated and unaffiliated exhibitors/retailers in arms’
length transactions for comparable pictures, or, if none, a comparable
exhibitor/retailer’s payments to comparable unrelated and unaffiliated
entities in arms’ length transactions for comparable pictures.
b. Agreements and Data
On a quarterly basis commencing January 1, 2010, within ten (10)
business days after such request, the Producer shall provide for inspection
by IATSE’s designated employee or auditor, at Producer’s premises in
Los Angeles, full access8 to all unredacted license, distribution, and other
agreements pertaining to new media exploitation of covered pictures that
were entered into during the immediately preceding quarter. In any
subsequent quarterly inspection, the IATSE’s designated employee or
auditor may re-inspect any agreements previously inspected and inspect
any agreements not previously inspected.
Upon request, in a manner to be mutually agreed upon in good faith, the
Producer shall expeditiously provide, or make available, to the IATSE
data in its possession or control, or the possession or control of its related
distribution entities, regarding the new media exploitation of covered
pictures, such as number of downloads or streams by source and ad rates,
where relevant to the payments required under this Sideletter.
7 For sake of clarity, “Producer’s gross” specifically includes advertising revenues when the license, distribution, or
other agreement provides for sharing in such revenues.
8 Full access includes access to all agreements, notwithstanding any confidentiality clause contained therein, and
access to all sideletters, exhibits, addenda, and other ancillary documents.
- 196 -

--- PAGE 270 of 277 ---

Matthew D. Loeb
Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted Via New Media
Revised as of August 1, 2021
Page 5
c. Recordkeeping and Reporting
Payment for exploitation of covered pictures in new media shall be due
sixty (60) days after the end of the quarter in which the “Producer’s gross”
from such exploitation is received. The Producer shall accompany such
payments with reports regarding the “Producer’s gross” derived from such
exploitation, which shall be specified by medium and source whenever
reasonably possible and will be separated from revenues derived from
exploitation of Such Pictures in traditional media. Along with such
payments, the Producer shall provide the IATSE with unredacted copies of
all corollary distributor’s, subdistributor’s, and exhibitor’s statements
relating to the reported “Producer’s gross.”
When the Producer allocates revenues between new media rights and other
rights in any Such Picture, among new media rights in multiple Such
Pictures, or otherwise, it shall specify such allocation.
d. Confidentiality
The information provided to the IATSE by the Producer will be treated as
confidential and appropriate arrangements will be made to safeguard the
confidentiality of that information.
e. Reservation of Rights
With respect to theatrical and television motion pictures, the Producer has
agreed to a separate payment for this use in new media because exhibition
in new media is at this time outside the primary market. The Producer
reserves the right in future negotiations to contend that the pattern of
release has changed so that this use constitutes or is a part of the primary
market of distribution of theatrical or television motion pictures and that,
therefore, no additional payment should be made with respect to the
exhibition of theatrical motion pictures or television programs (including
those covered by this Agreement) in new media. The IATSE reserves the
right in future negotiations to contend to the contrary, and further to assert
that regardless of whether other exhibitions are or have become part of the
primary market, residual provisions for theatrical or television motion
pictures so exhibited should be improved.
- 197 -

--- PAGE 272 of 277 ---

ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS
15301 Ventura Boulevard, Building E, Sherman Oaks, CA 91403
Tel: 818.995.3600 • Fax: 818.285.4450 • www.amptp.org
Carol A. Lombardini Direct: 818.935.5930
President
As of August 1, 2018
Matthew D. Loeb
International President
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and
Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts
of the United States, its Territories and Canada
207 West 25th Street, 4th Floor
New York, New York 10001
Re: Virtual MVPD Services
Dear Matt:
During the course of the 2018 negotiations, the parties discussed how the landscape of the free
television marketplace has evolved from the past – when the exhibition of a given television
program was only available to the viewer in the home on a television set on a linear channel at a
specific scheduled time – to the current marketplace, commonly referred to as “TV everywhere”
where the viewing public, in addition to viewing a program on a linear channel at a scheduled
time, is also provided the time-shifted option to view the same program on a variety of digital
devices on a video-on-demand (“VOD”) basis. In addition, in the past, the bargaining parties
agreed that television exhibitions on a linear channel provided through an MVPD, whether such
channel was a free television channel or a basic cable channel, were considered exploitation of
free television rights even though the consumer paid a monthly fee to access such programming.
Consistent with the above, the bargaining parties agree that with respect to new internet
delivered “virtual MVPD” services, such as Sling TV and Sony's PlayStation Vue, and other like
services, such as CBS All Access, (collectively referred to hereafter as “vMVPD Services”), any
VOD rights which are associated with exhibition of the motion picture or episodes of the series
(collectively and alternatively “Programs”) on a linear channel on the vMVPD Service
(commonly referred to as “stacking rights”) shall be considered exploitation of free television
rights and not a form of pay or subscription television and, therefore, Paragraph 1(a) (“If the
Consumer Pays”) of the Sideletter re: Exhibition of Motion Pictures Transmitted Via New Media
which governs licenses to consumer pay new media platforms for a limited period or fixed
number of exhibitions, shall not apply to such exhibitions. Such exhibitions and associated
“stacking rights,” regardless of whether current or past season episodes are exhibited and
regardless of whether such VOD exhibition contains advertisements, shall be treated the same as
if such programs were exhibited on traditional MVPDs. Any VOD rights related to a motion
picture shall not be deemed “associated with” the right to exhibit it on a linear channel of that
vMVPD Service subsequent to the date on which the right to exhibit the motion picture or
episodes on the linear channel terminated.
- 199 -

--- PAGE 274 of 277 ---

ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS
15301 Ventura Boulevard, Building E, Sherman Oaks, CA 91403
Tel: 818.995.3600 • Fax: 818.285.4450 • www.amptp.org
Carol A. Lombardini Direct: 818.935.5930
President
As of August 1, 2018
Matthew D. Loeb
International President
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and
Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts
of the United States, its Territories and Canada
207 West 25th Street, 4th Floor
New York, New York 10001
Re: Over-the-Top ("OTT") Service of Pay Television Service
Dear Matt:
The parties confirm that when a pay television service (such as HBO, Showtime or Starz) also
provides to subscribers, without additional subscription fee, over-the-top ("OTT") services (such
as HBO Go, Showtime Anytime or Starz Play), the OTT service shall be treated as part of the
linear pay television service for all purposes under the Basic Agreement. Likewise, when a pay
television service only provides OTT services (such as HBO Now and the OTT subscription
services of Showtime and Starz), such OTT service, whether or not such service includes a linear
channel of the pay television service, shall also be treated as part of the linear pay television
service for all purposes under the Basic Agreement.
Sincerely,
Carol A. Lombardini
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Matthew D. Loeb
International President
- 201 -

--- PAGE 277 of 277 ---

EXHIBIT “Z”
STUDIO ZONE AND SECONDARY STUDIO ZONE MAP
Studio Zone Defined - The Studio Zone shall be the area within a circle thirty (30) miles in
radius from Beverly Blvd. and La Cienega Blvd., Los Angeles, California and includes Agua
Dulce, Castaic (including Lake Castaic), Leo Carillo State Beach, Ontario International Airport,
Piru and Pomona (including the Los Angeles County Fair Grounds). The Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer, Inc. Conejo Ranch property shall be considered as within the Studio Zone.
Secondary Studio Zone Defined - The Secondary Studio Zone extends ten (10) miles from the
perimeter of the Studio Zone and includes John Wayne Airport and the City of Huntington
Beach in its entirety.
This map is available at www.csatf.org/zonemap.pdf.
EXHIBIT "Z"
- 204 -