SOURCE: Local_700_2024_MOA.pdf
PAGES: 27
============================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 27 ---

July 18, 2024
LOCAL MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT OF AUGUST 1, 2024
BETWEEN ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS
AND INTERNATIONAL ALLIANCE OF THEATRICAL STAGE EMPLOYEES AND
MOVING PICTURE TECHNICIANS, ARTISTS AND ALLIED CRAFTS OF THE
UNITED STATES, ITS TERRITORIES AND CANADA
AND LOCAL 700 (EDITORS) THEREOF
THIS LOCAL MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT IS BETWEEN THE
INTERNATIONAL ALLIANCE OF THEATRICAL STAGE EMPLOYEES AND MOVING
PICTURE TECHNICIANS, ARTISTS AND ALLIED CRAFTS OF THE UNITED STATES,
ITS TERRITORIES AND CANADA AND MOTION PICTURE EDITORS GUILD,
LOCAL 700, I.A.T.S.E., ON THE ONE HAND, AND THE ALLIANCE OF MOTION
PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS, ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANIES LISTED
ON EXHIBITS “A” AND “B” ATTACHED HERETO AND THOSE PRODUCERS WHICH
HAVE EFFECTIVELY CONSENTED TO BE A PART OF THE SINGLE MULTI-
EMPLOYER BARGAINING UNIT, ON THE OTHER HAND. THIS MEMORANDUM OF
AGREEMENT IS EFFECTIVE AS OF AUGUST 1, 2024, OR THE FIRST SUNDAY
FOLLOWING THE BUSINESS DAY ON WHICH THE AMPTP RECEIVES NOTICE OF
RATIFICATION, WHICHEVER IS LATER, UNLESS A CONTRARY DATE IS SPECIFIED,
IN WHICH CASE SUCH PROVISION SHALL BE EFFECTIVE AS OF THE DATE SO
SPECIFIED.
PROVISIONS
1. This Local Memorandum of Agreement along with any attachments or exhibits
reflects the understanding reached between the parties and will be supplemented and/or modified
to include appropriate changes and effective dates contained in the executed 2024 General
Memorandum of Agreement.
2. All agreements are subject to the terms and conditions of any agreed-upon extensions.
3. All agreements are subject to final agreement in General Negotiations and to ratification
and execution by the parties.
4. All issues not resolved herein are withdrawn.
EFFECT OF CHANGES
This Local Memorandum of Agreement and the applicable provisions of the General
Memorandum of Agreement, along with the remaining unchanged provisions of the 2018 Local
700 Agreements covering Post-Production Personnel (Majors and Independents), as amended by
the 2021 General Memorandum of Agreement, shall be deemed to be the 2024 Local Agreement
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 2 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 2
until such time as the Local Agreement can be amended in accordance with the changes
contained in the 2024 Local and General Memorandum of Agreement.
WITNESSETH:
In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. Company-by-Company Meetings
Add a Sideletter to the Majors, Independents and Amendment Agreements, effective as of
August 1, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP
receives notice of ratification, whichever is later, as follows:
“During the 2024 negotiations, the Union raised concerns about the volume of work
assigned to the editorial department and compressed post-production schedules that have
been caused by changes in production and post-production processes, including, among
other things, the shift from film to digital recording.
“The parties agreed that company-by-company meetings should take place between
representatives of the Union and representatives of the Producers, including high level
production and post-production executives, to promote awareness of these concerns and
discussion of suggested changes or solutions to alleviate them. To that end, the Union
may request, during the term of the 2024 Agreement, to schedule meetings with each
Producer to discuss the Union’s concerns. The Union shall give Producer written notice
of its request to schedule a meeting. The Producer and the Union shall convene meetings
at a mutually acceptable date and time and with sufficient advance notice so that the
Producer may arrange to have appropriate production and post-production personnel
attend. The first such meeting shall occur before the end of the 2024 calendar year,
provided that the AMPTP receives notice of ratification on or before September 30, 2024,
and thereafter meetings shall occur no less than twice per year and more often upon
mutual agreement of the Union and the Producer.”
2. Consecutive Days (U-2)
a. Modify Paragraph 7.1. of the Majors and Independents Agreements as follows:
“7.1 Overtime for the Sixth or Seventh Day Worked in an Employee's
Workweek and Holidays (Editorial Personnel Only)
“Sound and music editorial personnel shall be guaranteed two (2)
consecutive days off after nineteen (19) fifteen (15) consecutive days of work
(nineteen (19) consecutive days of work in the case of an employee employed
on a pilot*). With respect to other editorial personnel, Producer will guarantee, if
requested by the employee, no less than two (2) days off after twenty-one (21)
fifteen (15) consecutive days of work (twenty-one (21) consecutive days of
work in the case of an employee employed on a pilot*). The two (2) days must
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 3 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 3
be taken at a mutually-agreed time, but no later than seven (7) days following the
expiration of the fifteen (15) or twenty-one (21) day period, as applicable. The
two (2) days need not be consecutive; however, if the employee so desires, every
effort will be made to make the days consecutive.
“In the event of a violation of the foregoing paragraph, the Producer shall
pay to the aggrieved employee a penalty of one-quarter (¼) one-half (1/2) of one
day of pay for each day worked after such employee is entitled to time off as
provided above until the employee actually receives time off as required. For the
purpose of this provision, one day of pay shall be deemed to be one-fifth (1/5) of
the minimum weekly or on-call rate applicable to the employee's classification.”
“* For purposes of this provision, a ‘pilot’ is a production for which
no firm commitment for the series exists at the time the pilot is ordered.”
b. Modify Paragraph 3(a)(6)(H) in the Majors and Independents Amendment
Agreements:
“(H) (i) Sound and music editorial personnel shall be
guaranteed two (2) consecutive days off after nineteen (19) fifteen (15)
consecutive days of work (nineteen (19) consecutive days of work in the case of
an employee employed on a pilot*). With respect to other editorial personnel,
other than on location, Producer will guarantee, if requested by the Employees, no
less than two (2) days off after twenty-one (21) fifteen (15) consecutive days of
work (twenty-one (21) consecutive days of work in the case of an employee
employed on a pilot*). The two (2) days must be taken at a mutually-agreed
time, but no later than seven (7) days following the expiration of the fifteen (15)
or twenty-one (21) day period, as applicable. The two (2) days need not be
consecutive; however, if the Employee so desires, every effort will be made to
make the days consecutive.
“(ii) In the event of a violation of the foregoing
paragraph, the Producer shall pay to the aggrieved Employee a penalty of one-
quarter (¼) one-half (1/2) of one day of pay for each day worked after such
Employee is entitled to time off as required. For the purpose of this provision,
one day of pay shall be deemed to be one-fifth (1/5) of the weekly minimum rate
applicable to the Employee's classification. In the event that the Producer chooses
to negotiate a “buy-out” of the aforementioned penalty, the terms of the “buy-out”
shall be separately stated in the Employee's deal memorandum. The terms of the
“buy-out” shall not be open to question if the Employee's aggregate compensation
is at least twenty-five percent (25%) above scale. Instances in which the
Employees are paid less than twenty-five percent (25%) above scale and the
Union disputes the fairness of the “buy-out” terms shall be resolved between the
Producer and the Union.
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 4 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 4
“* For purposes of this provision, a ‘pilot’ is a production for
which no firm commitment for the series exists at the time the pilot is
ordered.”
3. Editor’s Delivery Date (U-3)
Add Paragraph 64(a) (Editor’s Delivery Date) of the Majors and Independents
Agreements as a new Paragraph 3(a)(26) to the Majors and Independents Amendment
Agreements.
4. Technological Change (U-4)
a. Modify Paragraph 78(e) of the Majors and Independents Agreements as follows:
“(e) Displacement Pay
* * *
“Producer shall pay him the amount of compensation set forth in
the following table and, upon such payment, he shall be removed from the
Industry Experience Roster, so far as such Producer is concerned, and from the
Studio Seniority Roster, if any.”
b. Add a new Paragraph 3(a)(27) to the Majors and Independents Amendment
Agreements as follows:
“(27) Technological Change
“(A) Definition of Technological Change
“As used herein, the term "technological change" means the
introduction of any new or modified devices or equipment for the purpose of
performing any work by employees covered by this Agreement which directly
results in a change in the number of employees employed under this Agreement
or which results, with respect to the performance of work in any classification
hereunder, in materially changing the job description thereof, if any, provided
herein, or in requiring substantially different training, qualification or skills
therefor.
“(B) Producer's Right to Institute Technological Changes
“The parties hereto agree that Producer has the unrestricted right to
make technological changes and that such right shall not be subject to grievance
or arbitration or any other proceeding. However, Producer's right to make
technological changes shall be subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (C),
(D), (E) and (F) of this Paragraph 3(a)(27).
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 5 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 5
“(C) Notice of Technological Change
“If Producer proposes to make any technological change, it shall
give written notice thereof to Union and to any other Union affected by such
change. Such notice shall be given as soon as possible but not less than thirty
(30) days prior to instituting such change.
“(D) Retraining
“If any technological change permanently displaces any person in
the performance of the employee’s job classification for Producer, and
“(i) such person, as of the date of such displacement, is entitled
under the provisions of Paragraph 3(a)(28) hereof ("Severance Pay") to be
credited with at least one (1) "qualified year" arising out of the employee’s
employment by Producer; and
“(ii) such person is qualified to be retrained for an available job
resulting from such technological change or for other jobs which Producer has
available within Union's jurisdiction, or for any other available job opportunity
with Producer, then:
“Producer agrees to endeavor to retrain such person for such
available job at Producer's expense, in which event the provisions of
subparagraph (E), below, shall not apply. Union agrees, notwithstanding anything
in this Agreement to the contrary, to permit such retraining and to cooperate with
Producer with respect thereto. Any such person offered retraining pursuant to this
subparagraph (D) shall, of course, have the right to reject the same, but any such
rejection shall discharge Producer's obligations under this Paragraph 3(a)(27)
unless the job opportunity for which Producer offered retraining was at a lower
rate of pay than the job from which employee is being displaced.
“(E) Displacement Pay
“If any such technological change permanently displaces any
person in the performance of the employee’s job classification for Producer, and
“(i) such person, as of the date of such displacement, is entitled
under the provisions of Paragraph 3(a)(28) hereof ("Severance Pay") to be
credited with at least one (1) "qualified year" arising out of the employee’s
employment by Producer; and
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 6 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 6
“(ii) such person makes written application to Producer within
thirty (30) days after such displacement to receive displacement pay (as herein
defined), then:
“Producer shall pay the employee the amount of compensation set
forth in the following table.
Qualified Years as of the Date Number of Weeks of
of Displacement Displacement Pay Payable
1 or 2 1
3 1½
4 2
5 to 9 (inclusive) 3
10 or 11 5
12 or 13 6
14 or 15 7
16 or 17 8
18 or 19 9
20 or more 10
“The payment of displacement pay, as above provided, shall be
separate and apart from any obligation Producer may have to pay severance pay
to such displaced person under the provisions of Paragraph 3(a)(28) hereof
("Severance Pay"). Notwithstanding anything in this subparagraph (E) to the
contrary, no such displaced person shall be eligible for displacement pay if:
“(a) Producer offers the training referred to in
subparagraph (D) above and such person rejects it, unless the training rejected is
for a job at a lower rate of pay, or
“(b) such person is offered a job by Producer at an equal
or better rate of pay, or
“(c) such person accepts any job with Producer even
though such job is at a lower rate of pay.
“(F) Negotiation of New Rates
“If any technological change results, with respect to the
performance of work in any classification hereunder, in materially changing the
job description thereof, if any, provided herein, or in requiring substantially
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 7 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 7
different training, qualification or skills therefor, and either the Producer or the
Union desires to negotiate a new rate or classification for such job, the party
desiring such negotiation shall give written notice to such effect to the other party
within thirty (30) days following the date upon which any such job is so affected.
Upon receipt of such notice, the parties shall immediately endeavor to agree upon
the proper classification or rate for such job. Any such agreement shall be final
and binding upon the parties concerned. If no such agreement is reached within
thirty (30) days after such written notice is received, either party to this
Agreement may, within thirty (30) days thereafter, invoke the grievance procedure
provided in Paragraph 3(a)(16) hereof. The rate or classification determined by
such agreement or by any arbitration pursuant to the grievance procedure shall be
effective retroactive to the date upon which any employee commenced
performing services in any such affected job, but no reduction in rate shall be
retroactive.
“(G) Experimental Technological Changes
“The provisions of subparagraphs (C), (D), (E) and (F) above shall
not apply to any experimental technological change except that if any such change
becomes other than experimental and any increased rate for a job affected thereby
is negotiated pursuant to subparagraph (F) above, such increased rate shall be
retroactive to the date upon which an employee commenced performing the
changed services in such affected job. As used herein, the term, "experimental
technological change" shall mean a technological change which is instituted by
Producer for the primary purpose of determining, under operating conditions, the
feasibility and adequacy of performance of any new or modified device or
equipment; provided, however, that the change shall no longer be considered
experimental after the date upon which its operation by persons under the
jurisdiction of this Agreement is no longer subject to supervision by the
technicians or engineers concerned with its development. Nothing in this
subparagraph (G) shall be construed to deprive Union of jurisdiction over any job
over which it otherwise has jurisdiction hereunder.
“(H) Disputes Concerning Retraining, Displacement Pay and
Negotiation of New Rates
“If a dispute arises between Union and Producer with respect to
any determination required by subparagraphs (D), (E), (F) or (G) of this
Paragraph 3(a)(27), such dispute shall be subject to the grievance procedure set
forth in Paragraph 3(a)(16) of this Agreement, but any award arising out of such
grievance or arbitration shall be limited to the enforcement of the provisions of
said subparagraphs hereof and shall not affect Producer's right to make
technological changes.”
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 8 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 8
5. Severance Pay (U-5)
Add a new Paragraph 3(a)(28) to the Majors and Independents Amendment Agreements
as follows:
“(28) Severance Pay
“(A) General
“(i) (a) An employee employed by the Producer under this
Amendment Agreement or its predecessor Amendment Agreements for one or more
qualified years (as defined in subparagraph (E) hereof) whose employment is severed
after [insert date that is August 1, 2024 or the first Sunday following the business day on
which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later]; or
“(b) an employee who had at least one (1) qualified year (as
defined in subparagraph (E) below) as of August 1, 1985 who on or after [insert date that
is August 1, 2024 or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP
receives notice of ratification, whichever is later] has made the required application for
retirement to the Motion Picture Industry Pension Plan at least sixty (60) days prior to
retiring or has made the required application for retirement to any private retirement plan
referred to in Article XV of the Trust Agreement of the Motion Picture Industry Pension
Plan and who retires
“shall receive the applicable severance pay set forth below (as modified by subparagraph
(C) hereof) unless such employee is disqualified for severance pay purposes pursuant to
subparagraph (D) hereof.
Number of Weeks of
Qualified Years Severance Pay
1-2 1
3-4 2
5-8 3
9 4
10 5
11-12 6
13-14 7
15 8
16 9
17 10
18 11
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 9 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 9
19 12
20 13
“Severance pay shall be based on the employee’s average straight time
weekly earnings, calculated based on the twelve (12) consecutive month period ending on
the date of severance.
“(ii) Ninety (90) elapsed days after severance occurs such employee
shall be entitled to:
“(a) one (1) week of said severance pay if the employee has two
or less qualified years as of date of severance;
“(b) two (2) weeks of said severance pay if the employee has
three (3) or more qualified years as of date of severance; provided, however, such
employee shall not receive such severance pay if, within such ninety (90) day period, the
employee receives the following employment by Producer:
“(1) five (5) days’ employment, not necessarily
consecutive, if the employee has one (1) or two (2) qualified years as of the date of such
severance;
“(2) eight (8) days’ employment, not necessarily
consecutive, if the employee has three (3) qualified years as of the date of such
severance;
“(3) ten (10) days’ employment, not necessarily
consecutive, if the employee has four (4) or more qualified years as of the date of such
severance.
“(iii) If such employee entitled to severance pay after ninety (90) elapsed
days has five (5) or more qualified years as of the date of severance, the employee shall
be entitled to the balance of the employee’s accrued severance pay ninety (90) elapsed
days following the completion of the first ninety (90) day period, unless during the
second ninety (90) day period the employee receives fifteen (15) days’ employment by
Producer, not necessarily consecutive.
“(iv) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (ii) and (iii)
above, an employee who retires in accordance with subparagraph (A)(i)(b) above shall
receive severance pay within thirty (30) days following the employee’s retirement.
“(B) Payment of Full Severance Pay
“Once an employee has received full accrued severance pay pursuant to
subparagraph (A) above, the employee shall thereafter be a new employee for severance
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 10 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 10
pay purposes and future computation of qualified years shall apply only to employment
by Producer, if any, after the receipt of such full severance pay.
“(C) Reduction of Severance Pay Amounts
“Any severance pay paid to an employee after [insert date that is August
1, 2024 or the first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives
notice of ratification, whichever is later] shall correspondingly reduce the total number of
weeks of severance pay to which the employee is thereinafter entitled before again
becoming a new employee hereunder. An employee who receives or has received full
severance pay hereunder after [insert date that is August 1, 2024 or the first Sunday
following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later] shall be considered to be a new employee thereafter for severance pay
purposes.
“(D) Disqualification for Severance Pay
“Employees hereunder shall be disqualified for severance pay in
accordance with the provisions of subparagraphs (i) and (ii) below.
“(i) Refusal of Offers of Employment
“If an employee rejects an offer of employment from Producer
hereunder during either of the ninety (90) day periods referred to in subparagraph (A)(iii)
hereof, such employee shall lose qualification for severance pay and, if subsequently
rehired, shall be rehired as a new employee for severance pay purposes. If any employee
was not available or could not be reached when called for work by Producer, the
employee shall be deemed to have rejected an offer of employment; provided, however,
that:
“(a) Producer shall be obligated, in the event of such rejection
or unavailability, to notify the Union on the same day by telephone unless the Union
office is not open, in which case such notification must be made on the next following
workday, and to confirm such call by letter posted on the day of such notification to the
Union.
“(b) If Producer is unable to reach the employee (including such
inability to reach because no one answers employee's phone), Producer shall be obligated
to telephone the Union and request the Union to make the call, in which event the Union
shall either promptly confirm to the Producer by telephone its inability to reach the
employee or advise the Producer by telephone that it has reached the employee and of the
results of such call.
“(c) It is recognized that in certain circumstances it may be
difficult for an employee to accept a call immediately when the employee is currently
employed at another studio. It is further recognized that in certain circumstances it may
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 11 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 11
be difficult for the employee, as well as a hardship to the studio at which the employee is
then employed, to be required to accept a call immediately without any notice to the
employee’s then present employer. It is believed that in the great majority of cases
reasonable consideration would be given so that the employee would not lose severance
pay credits. To this end, it is the intent of the parties hereto that if an employee who is
qualified for severance pay has been laid off by a studio and, within either of the ninety
(90) day periods referred to, such studio recalls the employee at a time when such
employee is unable to accept such recall because of other employment in the motion
picture industry, then either of such ninety (90) day periods shall be deemed extended by
a period equivalent to the period of employment for which the employee was being
recalled, but in no event to exceed twenty (20) days. In the event such employee is again
recalled within either of the ninety (90) day periods and does not accept such recall
because of other employment in the motion picture industry, or for any other reason
except as otherwise herein provided, then such employee shall lose qualification for
severance pay and, in the event the employee is subsequently rehired by the Producer,
then such rehire shall be as a new employee for severance pay purposes, except that if the
employee's call was on a daily basis, there may be two (2) extensions of either of the
ninety (90) day periods by reason of inability to accept calls because of employment
elsewhere in the motion picture industry.
“(d) If the employee is unavailable to accept such recall because
of employment outside the motion picture industry at the time of such recall, the
employee shall have a maximum of two (2) days after the date of such recall to become
available and, if the employee fails to do so, then such employee shall lose qualification
for severance pay and, if the employee is subsequently rehired, shall be a new employee
for severance pay purposes.
“(ii) Severance Beyond Control of Producer
“In the event any severance is the result of a dismissal due to
seniority requirements, a voluntary resignation or a layoff as a result of physical
incapacity, epidemic, fire, action of the elements, strike, walkouts, labor dispute,
governmental order, court order or order of any other legally constituted body, act of
God, public enemy, war, riot, civil commotion or for any other cause beyond the control
of the Producer, whether of the same or any other nature, the employee shall not be
entitled to any severance pay arising out of the completion of both of the ninety (90) day
periods following such severance. In the event any severance is the result of dismissal
for cause, the employee so severed shall be disqualified for severance pay.
“(E) Qualified Years
“As used herein, the term "qualified years," with respect to any employee,
shall refer to the number of consecutive periods of three hundred sixty-five (365)
consecutive days each, calculated backward from the date of the employee’s severance,
in each of which the employee has been employed by Producer for two hundred (200) or
more work days (including paid vacation days as work days); it being understood and
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 12 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 12
agreed that if, in any such three hundred sixty-five (365) day period, such employee was
employed for less than two hundred (200) work days by Producer, such three hundred
sixty-five (365) day period shall not be counted as a qualified year but shall be "bridged"
for severance pay purposes, with the result that any such three hundred sixty-five (365)
day period or periods prior to such "bridged" year in which employee was employed by
Producer for two hundred (200) or more work days shall be counted as a qualified year;
provided, however, that any three hundred sixty-five (365) day period in which employee
received any authorized leave of absence without pay shall be extended by the length of
such leave and provided, further, that the computation of qualified years shall be subject
to the following exception:
“If an employee is determined to have less than two (2) qualified years,
the employee shall be credited with a qualified year only if, in addition to having been
employed for at least two hundred (200) or more days in the three hundred sixty-five
(365) days immediately preceding the date of severance, the employee shall have been
employed for at least one (1) day during the first six (6) months of the eighteen (18)
month period immediately preceding the date of severance, in which case the employee
shall be credited with one (1) qualified year.
“(F) Severance Obligation of Successor Company
“If a successor company buys out Producer and continues the operation of
Producer's studio, and if the buying company continues the employment at the studio of
an employee of Producer, such employee shall retain with the buying company the
appropriate severance pay experience credit accrued with Producer and the employee’s
employment shall not be considered to be terminated for severance pay purposes as a
result of such successor company's acquisition of Producer. If such employee is not so
continued in employment by the buying company, then Producer is responsible for any
severance pay due the employee at the time of termination. If such employee is offered
employment by the buying company, but elects not to continue employment with the
buying company, the employee shall not be entitled to any severance pay from either
Producer or buying company.
“(G) Presentation of Claim for Severance Pay
Any claim for the payment of severance pay, not presented to the Producer
within three hundred sixty-five (365) calendar days after the date upon which the
employee is qualified under this Paragraph for such severance pay, shall be deemed to be
waived.”
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 13 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 13
6. Prior Notice of Layoff (U-6)
Add the following as a new Paragraph 3(a)(6)(G) to the Majors and Independents
Amendment Agreement (and renumber the remainder of Paragraph 3(a)(6) accordingly):
“(G) Prior Notice of Layoff, Voluntary Resignation or Quits (Editorial Personnel Only)
“Editorial employees who have been employed by the Producer for four (4) or
more consecutive weeks shall, in conjunction with completion of an assignment, receive
five (5) work days’ advance notice of layoff from the Producer, or payment in lieu
thereof. The Producer shall receive from such employee one (1) week's advance notice in
the event such employee resigns or quits. Notwithstanding the above provision, the five
(5) day notice requirement from the Producer shall not apply when the layoff is
necessitated by the cancellation of a television series or due to a force majeure (e.g., a
fire, accident, strike, riot, act of God, or the public enemy, or by any executive or judicial
order). In any of such situations, the Producer will still endeavor to give reasonable notice
of layoff, if possible.
“When an editorial employee reports to work on the twentieth consecutive
workday and has not been given a prior notice of layoff from the Producer, such
employee shall be considered as having completed four (4) consecutive weeks and be
entitled to advance layoff notice.
“When a Sound Editor does not receive five (5) work days’ advance notice of
layoff from the Producer because the Producer could not anticipate an earlier layoff date,
the Producer is not obligated to pay for any day not worked that would otherwise fall
within the five (5) day notice period.”
7. Holidays in Amendment Agreement (U-8)
Effective [insert date that is August 1, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business
day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], Juneteenth
shall be added as a holiday in Paragraph 3(a)(10) of the Majors and Independents
Amendment Agreements. A daily employee who does not work on Juneteenth shall be
eligible for payment for the holiday if the employee worked the scheduled work day
before the holiday and the scheduled work day after the holiday. (If the next scheduled
work day after the holiday follows a hiatus of one (1) week or more, no holiday pay shall
be payable.) Pay for the daily employee for the unworked holiday shall be calculated on
the basis of eight (8) hours (at the employee’s regular straight time hourly rate).
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 14 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 14
8. Supervising Sound Editor (U-12)
Modify Paragraph 97 of the Majors Agreement as follows:
“97. Z-4 Supervising Sound Editor
“‘Z-4 Supervising Sound Editor’ shall be deemed to mean a person engaged in the
supervision of groups of Sound Editors engaged in the making or creating of sound or
sound effects and/or the creating or making of such sound or sound effects and/or
engaged in assembling and synchronizing sound or sound effects tracks. The Supervising
Sound Editor may make recommendations to the Producer with respect to schedules and
staffing.”
Producers agree to distribute a bulletin regarding the above to the appropriate post-
production personnel.
9. Colorists (U-14)
a. Effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is
later], add the following classifications to all wage schedules in the Majors and
Independents Agreements and to paragraph 3(a)(7) of the Majors and
Independents Amendment Agreements:
Colorist*
i. Colorist Journeyperson – Occ. Code #4126 (at the Y-1 rate)**
ii. Colorist Entry Level – Occ. Code #4127 (at the Y-1 rate)**
iii. Colorist Journeyperson (Amendment Agreement “New York Rates”) –
Occ. Code #4128: Equivalent to Majors Y-1 Journeyman weekly hourly
rate, with a 40-hour weekly guarantee
iv. Colorist Entry Level (Amendment Agreement “New York Rates”) – Occ.
Code #4129: Equivalent to Majors Y-1 Entry Level weekly hourly rate,
with a 40-hour weekly guarantee****
Dailies Colorist*
v. Dailies Colorist Journeyperson – Occ. Code #4136 (at the Y-4 rate)***
vi. Dailies Colorist Entry Level – Occ. Code #4137 (at the Y-4 rate)***
vii. Dailies Colorist Journeyperson (Amendment Agreement “New York
Rates”) – Occ. Code #4138: Equivalent to Majors Y-4 Journeyman
weekly hourly rate, with a 40-hour weekly guarantee.
viii. Dailies Colorist Entry Level (Amendment Agreement “New York Rates”)
– Occ. Code #4139: Equivalent to Majors Y-4 Entry Level weekly hourly
rate, with a 40-hour weekly guarantee ****
Color Assist*
ix. Color Assist Journeyperson – Occ. Code #4146 (at the Y-9 rate)***
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 15 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 15
x. Color Assist Entry Level – Occ. Code #4147 (at the Y-9 rate)***
xi. Color Assist Journeyperson (Amendment Agreement “New York Rates”)
– Occ. Code #4148: Equivalent to Majors Y-9 Journeyman weekly hourly
rate, with a 40-hour weekly guarantee.
xii. Color Assist Entry Level (Amendment Agreement “New York Rates”) –
Occ. Code #4149: Equivalent to Majors Y-9 Entry Level weekly hourly
rate, with a 40-hour weekly guarantee****
The foregoing rates shall be subject to any general wage increases agreed upon in
the General negotiations in each year of the Agreements.
Producer shall not reduce the rate of any employee employed as a “Colorist,”
“Dailies Colorist” or “Color Assist” on [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the
first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later] by reason of this agreement.
* Add a footnote to these classifications in the wage schedules of the Majors
and Independents Agreements and Amendment Agreements as follows:
“This Agreement shall apply to ‘Colorists,’ ‘Dailies Colorists’ and ‘Color
Assists’ on live action motion pictures only.”
** Schedules and footnotes applicable to Colorists:
Majors Agreement:
A. Under the Studio Minimum Wage Scales, Schedule A-4 (daily)
and Schedule B-3 (weekly), as well as footnotes 7 and 9, shall
apply to the Colorist classification as currently designated in the
wage schedules.
B. Under the Distant Location Minimum Wage Scales, Schedule A-3
(daily) and B-3 (weekly), as well as footnotes 7 and 8, shall apply
to the Colorist classification as currently designated in the wage
schedules.
Independents Agreement:
A. Under the Studio Minimum Wage Scales, Schedule A-3 (daily)
and Schedule B-1 (weekly), as well as footnotes 7 and 9, shall
apply to the Colorist classification as currently designated in the
wage schedules.
B. Under the Distant Location Minimum Wage Scales, Schedule A-3
(daily) and B-1 (weekly), as well as footnotes 4 and 5, shall apply
to the Colorist classification as currently designated in the wage
schedules.
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 16 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 16
*** Schedules and footnotes applicable to Dailies Colorists and Color Assists:
Majors Agreement:
A. Under the Studio Minimum Wage Scales, Schedule A-5 (daily)
and Schedule B-4 (weekly), as well as footnotes 7, 9, 12 and 13,
shall apply to these classifications.
B. Under the Distant Location Minimum Wage Scales, Schedule A-4
(daily) and B-4 (weekly), as well as footnotes 7, 8, 11 and 12, shall
apply to these classifications as currently designated in the wage
schedules.
Independents Agreement:
A. Under the Studio Minimum Wage Scales, Schedule A-4 (daily)
and Schedule B-2 (weekly), as well as footnotes 7, 9, 12 and 13,
shall apply to these classifications as currently designated in the
wage schedules.
B. Under the Distant Location Minimum Wage Scales, Schedule A-4
(daily) and B-2 (weekly), as well as footnotes 4, 5, 8 and 9, shall
apply to these classifications as currently designated in the wage
schedules.
**** Entry Level - One calendar year to move to Journeyperson.
All current employees in the “Colorist,” “Dailies Colorist” and “Color
Assist” classifications shall be entitled to count from their original start
date for purposes of satisfying the requirement of working at the Entry
Level rate for one year before becoming eligible to be paid the
Journeyperson rate. All current employees with a year or more of service
as of [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification,
whichever is later] will be moved up to the Journeyman rate.
b. Add the following as new Paragraphs to Section VIII (“Definitions and Duties of
Job Classifications”) of the Majors and Independents Agreements and
Paragraph 3(a)(4) of the Majors and Independents Amendment Agreements:
i. “‘Colorist’ shall be deemed to mean a person who works with clients and
productions providing creative input in color-correcting, including image
positioning, and scaling changes, and implementing color-correcting to the
release print and/or digital media.”
ii. “‘Dailies Colorist’ shall be deemed a person who provides color correction
to the working picture, managing metadata and ensuring picture/sound
sync for delivery to picture editorial.
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 17 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 17
iii. “‘Color Assist’ shall be deemed a person who prepares color projects and
sessions for the Colorist, manages color settings and database set-up, and
provides background support to Colorist as needed. Responsible for
rendering of digital files for delivery.
c. i. Add a new paragraph to Paragraph 82 of the Majors Agreement as
follows:
“It is understood that Producers have historically subcontracted “Colorist,”
“Dailies Colorist” and “Color Assist” work to third parties and may
continue to do so.”
ii. Add a new paragraph to Paragraph 3(a)(15) of the Majors Amendment
Agreement as follows:
“It is understood that Producers have historically subcontracted “Colorist,”
“Dailies Colorist” and “Color Assist” work to third parties and may
continue to do so.”
d. “Colorist,” “Dailies Colorist” and “Color Assist” shall be added as classifications
to the Industry Experience Roster, with placement on the Roster governed by
Paragraph 68(a)(1)(ii)(B).
Parties to amend the Memorandum of Agreement to include provisions regarding
Roster placement for individuals with work experience in the “Colorist,” “Dailies
Colorist” and “Color Assist” classifications prior to the effective date of the
Agreement.
Make conforming changes as necessary.
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 18 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 18
10. VFX Editor (U-15)
For many years, Producers have engaged in the practice of hiring VFX Editors under this
Agreement, even though this classification has not heretofore been referenced in the
Agreement. During that time, Producers have developed a wide variety of practices with
regard to the engagement of a VFX Editor, the duties they are assigned to perform and
the VFX-related duties that other members of the editorial team perform. The parties’
agreement on the following ‘VFX Editor’ provision is not intended to alter the business
practices that have developed except to the extent needed to comply with the express
terms set forth below.
a. Effective [insert date that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the
business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is
later], add “VFX Editor” to all wage schedules in the Majors and Independents
Agreements under Occ. Code #4197 and to Paragraph 3(a)(7) of the Majors and
Independents Amendment Agreements under Occ. Code #4198 as follows:
VFX Editor*, ** Weekly Guarantee – 50 hours;
(Majors and 5 Consecutive Days;
Independents 1½ after 8 and/or 40;
Agreements) Minimum Call – 8 hours
$3,329.15
($60.53/hour)
[subject to any general wage increases agreed
upon in the General negotiations in the second and
third years of the Agreement]
VFX Editor* Weekly Guarantee – 40 hours;
(Amendment 5 Consecutive Days;
Agreements) 1½ after 8 and/or 40;
Minimum Call – 8 hours
$2,554.80
($63.87/hour)
[subject to any general wage increases agreed
upon in the General negotiations in the second
and third years of the Agreement]
* This Agreement shall apply to ‘VFX Editors’ on live action motion pictures
only.
** Under the Majors Agreement, Footnote 3 to Paragraph 1 and Footnote 3 of
Paragraph 31 (with conforming changes for a 5-day workweek) shall apply.
Under the Independents Agreement, Footnote 2 to Paragraph 1 and Footnote 2 to
Paragraph 31 (with conforming changes for a 5-day workweek) shall apply.
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 19 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 19
Producer shall not reduce the rate of an employee employed as a “VFX Editor” on
[insert date that is August 1, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day
on which the AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later] by reason
of this agreement.
b. Add the following as a new Paragraph to Section VIII (“Definitions and Duties of
Job Classifications”) of the Majors and Independents Agreements and
Paragraph 3(a)(4) of the Majors and Independents Amendment Agreements:
“‘VFX Editor’ – On live action motion pictures that have a large volume of visual
effects editorial work which warrants the addition of an individual who will be
predominantly assigned to perform the duties described in the following
paragraph, the Producer shall hire a VFX Editor. Otherwise, the visual effects
editorial work may be assigned to a ‘Z-1’ Editor or an Assistant Editor.
“Duties of a VFX Editor include, but are not limited to, executing turnovers of
VFX shots, identifying and tracking VFX shots and source elements, cutting VFX
shots into sequences and creating temporary versions of VFX shots. VFX Editors
may create, establish and manage VFX workflows within the editorial department
in collaboration with the editor(s), director, showrunner(s), visual effects
producer, visual effects supervisor, post-production supervisor, post-production
executive(s) and/or visual effects executive(s), and VFX Editors may contribute
to the edit of VFX-heavy scenes.”
In the Amendment Agreements, replace the reference to “‘Z-1’ Editor” in the last
sentence of the first paragraph with a reference to “Editor.”
c. VFX Editors shall be added as a classification on the Industry Experience Roster,
with placement on the Roster governed by paragraph 68(a)(1)(ii)(A).
Parties to amend the Memorandum of Agreement to include provisions regarding
Roster placement for individuals with work experience in the “VFX Editor”
classification prior to the effective date of the Agreement.
d. i. Add a new paragraph to Paragraph 82 of the Majors Agreement as
follows:
“It is understood that Producers have historically subcontracted VFX work
to third parties who may employ ‘VFX Editors’ and may continue to do
so.”
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 20 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 20
ii. Add a new paragraph to Paragraph 3(a)(15) of the Majors Amendment
Agreement as follows:
“It is understood that Producers have historically subcontracted VFX work
to third parties who may employ ‘VFX Editors’ and may continue to do
so.”
Make conforming changes as necessary.
11. Furnishing of Equipment (Amendment Agreement) (U-18)
Modify Paragraph 3(a)(22)(B) in the Majors and Independents Amendment Agreement as
follows:
“The Producer shall supply the editing room and all necessary editing equipment. If
Producer and the employee reach an agreement for equipment owned by the
employee to be used to perform the employee’s job duties, the employee shall be
adequately compensated.”
12. Screen Credit (U-21)
Modify Paragraph 84(a)(1) in the Majors and Independents Agreements as follows:
“84. Screen Credit
“(a) Whenever and as long as the practice of giving screen credit to any
individual prevails, the Producer agrees that screen credit shall also be given, in a
prominent place on all positive prints, to the picture action Editor who edited the picture.
After the Editor's name, the letters "ACE" shall appear if it is so requested.
“(1) Screen credit for the picture action Film Editor shall be on a single
card. The single card will apply for all theatrical productions and for long-form (more
than one hour) television productions. The single card will also apply for all episodic
series and mini-series if the screen credit is “up front,” except that when two Editors
are employed on an animated episodic series or mini-series, they may share a card.
Screen credit will be "up front" if the Director of Photography and the Art Director's
credits are also "up front."
“When the picture action Film Editor's credit appears on a single screen
credit card in a short-form television production, the only screen credits for individuals
that may precede the picture action Film Editor's credit on such card shall be the Director
of Photography and/or the Art Director.”
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 21 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 21
13. Notice of Work on 6th or 7th Day (U-22)
Producers agree to distribute the following bulletin to the appropriate post-production
personnel:
“During the 2024 negotiations with Local 700, the Union raised a concern that employees
are often required to work on a sixth and/or seventh day in the workweek without
advance notice. This lack of notice makes it difficult for employees to plan personal
activities for the sixth and/or seventh day or rearrange personal activities already
scheduled.
“As a courtesy, Producers should endeavor to give at least forty-eight (48) hours’
advance notice to Local 700 employees if an employee will be asked to work on the sixth
and/or seventh day, but in any event should give such notice as soon as reasonably
practicable prior to the sixth and/or seventh day.”
14. Y-16a and Y-16 Wage Schedules (U-23)
The wage rates for a Y-16 (Sound Service Person) and Y-16a (Sound Department
Trainee) shall be increased to $28.50 per hour ($256.50 per day) effective [insert date
that is August 4, 2024, or the first Sunday following the business day on which the
AMPTP receives notice of ratification, whichever is later], subject to any general wage
increase agreed upon in General negotiations in the second and third years of the
Agreements.
During the 2024 Local 700 negotiations, the parties discussed the substantial gap between
the scale rates of the Y-16a and the next higher job classification, Y-9. In addition, it was
noted that the current job description for the Y-16a prohibits training into the Y-1 Mixer
classification. As a result of that discussion and the Union’s Discussion Item #1 which
seeks to create a pathway to train into the Assistant Sound Editor classifications, the
parties agree to meet within ninety (90) days of [insert date that is August 1, 2024, or the
first Sunday following the business day on which the AMPTP receives notice of
ratification, whichever is later] to address both matters. Provided that the parties reach
agreement on a progression from the Y-16a classification to the Y-9 classification, the
wage rate for a Journeyperson Y-16 (Sound Service Person) shall be increased to $32.50
per hour, effective on the same effective date as the effective date of such progression.
15. Daily Employment As a Result of Absences for Personal Reasons (P-4)
Modify footnote 1 to Schedules A-1 and A-2 in the Majors and Independents Agreement
as follows. (The language below is taken from footnote 1 to Paragraph 1 of the Majors
Agreement. Conforming changes shall be made to the corresponding footnotes to
Schedules A-1 and A-2 elsewhere in the Majors and Independents Agreements):
“1 Employees may be employed under Schedule A-1 or A-2 in the following
circumstances: for the purpose of replacing employees who are given time off
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 23 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 23
EXHIBIT “A”
AMPTP-represented Companies
Local 700 Post-Production (Majors) Agreement
12:05 AM Productions, LLC Classic Films Inc.
1440 Productions LLC Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc.
20th Century Studios, Inc. CPT Holdings, Inc.
300 Pictures, Inc. Crown City Pictures Inc.
40 North Productions, LLC Culture Crew Productions, Inc.
4423 Productions LLC
7 Friends Pictures Inc. Delta Blues Productions LLC
Digital 49 Productions, Inc.
A Little Bit Fuzzy Productions, LLC DreamWorks Animation Television Post-
ABC Signature, LLC Production, LLC
ABC Studios New York, LLC DreamWorks Post-Production L.L.C.
Adobe Pictures, Inc. Dutch Boy Productions, LLC
Alameda Productions, LLC DW Dramatic Television L.L.C.
Alive and Kicking, Inc. DW SKG TV L.L.C.
Ambient Sounds Productions LLC DW Studios Productions L.L.C.
Apple Studios LLC Dyminium Productions, LLC
Apple Studios Louisiana LLC
Artcraft Productions Inc. Eye Productions Inc.
Backlight Productions LLC Film 49 Productions, Inc.
Base Light Productions LLC Finnmax, LLC
B-Cam Productions LLC Focus Features Productions LLC
Beachwood Services, Inc. Fox Alternative Entertainment, LLC
Big Ticket Television Inc. Fox Studio Lot, LLC
Bonanza Productions Inc. FTP Productions, LLC
Breakout Kings Productions LLC
Brightstar TFCF Productions LLC Grass Skirt Digital Productions, Inc.
Broken Foot Production, Inc. GWave Productions, LLC
Bronson Avenue LLC
Bumper Productions LLC Hazardous Productions, LLC
Hop, Skip & Jump Productions, Inc.
Camdrew Productions LLC Horizon Scripted Television Inc.
Canada Premiere Pictures Inc. Hostage Productions, Inc.
Carnival Row Productions, LLC Hydronaut Productions, LLC
Cartoon Network Studios, Inc.
Castle Rock Pictures, Inc. Inclined Productions, Inc.
CBS Studios Inc.
Charlestown Productions LLC Jay Squared Productions LLC
Chime Productions, LLC
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 24 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 24
Kapital Productions, LLC Over the Pond Productions, Inc.
Kenwood TV Productions, Inc.
Keystone TV Productions LLC Pacific 2.1 Entertainment Group, Inc.
Kiki Tree Pictures Inc. Palladin Productions LLC
Parallax TV Productions LLC
Legendary Features Productions US, LLC Paramount Overseas Productions, Inc.
Legendary Pictures Productions LLC Paramount Pictures Corporation
Legendary Television Animation, LLC Paramount Worldwide Productions, Inc.
Lennox House Pictures Inc. Patch Bay Productions LLC
Linear Productions LLC Picrow Inc dba Pictures in a Row
Louisiana Premiere Productions LLC Picrow Streaming Inc.
PP21 Productions LLC
Madison Productions, Inc. Produced Bayou, Inc.
Main Gate Productions LLC Proximity Productions LLC
Main Lot Productions LLC
Marvel Film Productions LLC Random Pictures Inc.
Marvel Picture Works LLC Raquel Productions Inc.
Mesquite Productions, Inc. Red Zone Pictures, Inc.
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures Inc. Redemption Pictures, Inc.
MGM Television Entertainment Inc. Remote Broadcasting, Inc.
Milk Street Productions, LLC Riverboat Productions, LLC
Minim Louisiana Productions, LLC Rose City Pictures, Inc.
Minim Productions, Inc. Rozar Pictures, LLC
Mutiny Pictures Inc. Ruff Draft Productions, LLC
Netflix Animation, LLC S&K Pictures, Inc.
Netflix Productions, LLC Salty Pictures, Inc.
Netflix Series Animation, LLC Scope Productions, LLC
Netflix Studios, LLC Screen Gems Productions, Inc.
New Line Productions, Inc. Shovel Buddies, LLC
New Regency Productions, Inc. Singular Productions LLC
Next Step Productions LLC SLO Productions Inc.
Ninjutsu Pictures, Inc. Smallville Studios Inc.
NM Talent Inc. Sony Pictures Studios, Inc.
NS Pictures, Inc. South Circle Productions LLC
South Rock Productions LLC
Olive Avenue Productions LLC Stage 6 Films, Inc.
Olive Productions, LLC Stash Productions Inc.
On The Brink Productions, Inc. Storybuilders, LLC
One Eighty Productions LLC Studio Productions, Inc.
Open 4 Business Productions LLC
Orange Cone Productions LLC The Power LLC
Orchard Road Productions, LLC Theoretical Pictures, Inc.
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 25 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 25
Topanga Productions, Inc.
Trackdown Productions, Inc.
Triple Point Productions LLC
Turner Films, Inc.
TVM Productions, Inc.
Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation
dba 20th Television
Universal Animation Studios LLC
Universal City Studios LLC
Universal Content Productions LLC
Upside Down Productions Inc.
Vertical Hold Productions LLC
WAG Pictures Inc.
Walt Disney Pictures
Warner Bros. Animation Inc.
Warner Bros. Advanced Media Services,
Inc. (except IATSE Local 700
Laboratory/Film Technicians formerly
Local 683)
Warner Bros. Pictures
Warner Bros. Studio Operations
Warner Bros. Television
Warner Specialty Productions Inc.
Warner Specialty Video Productions Inc.
Waveform Productions LLC
wiip Productions, LLC
Woodridge Productions, Inc.
XOF Studios, LLC
YNFS Productions LLC
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 26 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 26
EXHIBIT “B”
AMPTP-represented Companies
Local 700 Post-Production (Independents) Agreement
50/50 Studio Productions, LLC Favian Wigs Inc.
Frank & Bob Films II, LLC
Abominable Pictures Inc. Frankie and Jude Productions, LLC
Academy Lighting Consultants, Inc FRB Productions, Inc.
Academy of Motion Picture Arts and
Sciences Gemini 3 Productions, Inc.
AE Ops, LLC Goldcrest Features, Inc.
Alcon Entertainment, LLC Goodnight Industries, Inc. dba Goodnight
American Costume Corp. and Company
AOH Special, Inc. Green Set Inc.
Ascension Films Inc.
Aspect Ratio, Inc. Honest Scholar Productions LLC
Atelier Eidos Inc. dba Bill Hargate
Costumes Island Studios, LLC fka Island Film Studios,
Atlantic Pictures, LLC LLC
It's Possible Productions, LLC
Big Indie Pictures, Inc.
Black Label Media, LLC Jax Media, LLC
BTW Productions, Inc. JC Backings Corporation
JMX, LLC
Capital Concerts, Inc.
Cast & Crew Production Services, LLC Ken Ehrlich Productions, Inc.
CBB Productions
Century Productions LLC LGTV Productions, Inc.
ChubbCo FilmCo Lightsavior Productions LLC
Corrado Mooncoin Holdings LLC Lime Grove Productions, LLC
Countess Productions LLC Lions Gate Productions, LLC
Country Music Association, Inc. Liquid Music, Inc.
Cranetown Media LLC Lucid Studios Inc.
Create Harmony Media Inc.
Crews Unlimited II Inc Marilyn J. Madsen
Cush Light LLC Media Services Processing, LLC
Minassian Productions Inc.
Dae Light Media, LLC Mountainair Films Inc.
MRZ Sound Inc dba Martell Sound
Electric Entertainment, Inc.
EPSG Management Services Nametag Production Inc.
Extreme Reach Productions Payroll, Inc. Nila Inc.
00312113.DOCX; 6

--- PAGE 27 of 27 ---

2024 Local 700 (Editors) Memorandum of Agreement
Page 27
Onyx Collective Productions, Inc. South Lake Audio Services, LLC
Spectral Motion, Inc.
Pace Pictures LLC Spellman Desk Company, Inc
Paradise Productions, Inc. Stage Call Inc.
Pat & Mike Productions, Inc. Stalwart Productions LLC
Pitch Black Development, LLC Stinger Productions LLC
Production Partners, Inc. Stitch Costume LLC
Program Productions, Inc. Story Ink, Ltd.
Purple Tally Productions, Inc. Storyteller Production Co., LLC dba Amblin
Partners
Quest Productions, Inc. Stu Segall Productions, Inc.
Studios Competition Productions, LLC
R/H Factor, Inc.
Radford Graphics, LLC Take Note, Inc
Rat Pac Controls Services Inc. The Dawgs Sound Design, Inc.
Renato Basile Entertainment, Inc. The Lippin Group Inc
Reunion 2017 LLC Theatrical Resources, LLC
River Road Entertainment Productions, LLC Tough House Productions
Rocart Inc. Triple Horse Studios LLC
Salt Spring Media, Inc. Uncle Easy Productions LLC
Scenic Express, Inc. Valkyrie of Iron, LLC.
Serendipity Productions, Inc. Volt Lites, Inc.
Signature Post Services LLC
Skycrew Sports Productions, LLC Walden Media Productions LLC
Skydance Animation, LLC Walk by Faith Film, LLC
Skydance Features, LLC Westwind Studios, LLC
Skydance Pictures, LLC Wild Canary Animation, Inc.
Sound One, Inc
00312113.DOCX; 6